=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 67/100 ===

 unite disparate configs in one place, you have many opportunities to refine and abstract the config. Configs can even be nested—for example, a Cassandra config may be embedded inside the Deployment Manager config of its base infrastructure or inside a Kubernetes ConfigMap. A good configuration language can handle any awkward string quoting and generally make this operation natural and simple.


To make it easy to write many different files for various applications, Jsonnet has a mode that expects config execution to yield a single JSON object that maps filenames to file content (formatted as needed). You can simulate this facility in other configuration languages by emitting a map from string to string and using a postprocessing step or wrapper script to write the files.







Integrating an Existing Application: Kubernetes


Kubernetes makes for an interesting case study for a couple of reasons:



 
 Jobs running on Kubernetes need to be configured, and their configuration can become complex.

 

 
 Kubernetes does not come with a bundled configuration language (not even an ad hoc one, thankfully).

 



Kubernetes users with minimally complex objects simply use YAML. Users with larger infrastructure extend their Kubernetes workflow with languages like Jsonnet to provide the abstraction facilities needed at that scale.



What Kubernetes Provides


Kubernetes is an open source system for orchestrating containerized workloads on a cluster of machines. Its API allows you to manage the containers themselves and many important details, such as communication between containers, communication in/out of the cluster, load balancing, storage, progressive rollout, and autoscaling. Each item of configuration is represented with a JSON object that can be managed via an API endpoint. The command-line tool kubectl lets you read these objects from disk and send them to the API.


On disk, the JSON objects are actually encoded as YAML streams.3 YAML is easily readable and converts easily to JSON via commonly available libraries. The out-of-the-box user experience involves writing YAML files that represent Kubernetes objects and running kubectl to deploy them to a cluster.


To learn about best practices for configuring Kubernetes, see the Kubernetes documentation on that topic.





Example Kubernetes Config


YAML, the user interface to Kubernetes configuration, provides some simple features like comments, and has a concise syntax that most people prefer to raw JSON. However, YAML falls short when it comes to abstraction: it only provides anchors,4 which are rarely useful in practice and are not supported by Kubernetes.


Suppose you want to replicate a Kubernetes object four times with different namespaces, labels, and other minor variations. Following the best practices of immutable infrastructure, you store the config of all four variants, duplicating the other identical aspects of the configuration. The following code snippet presents one variant (for the sake of brevity, we omit the other three files):



# example1.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
 labels:
 app: guestbook
 tier: frontend
 name: frontend
 namespace: prod
spec:
 externalTrafficPolicy: Cluster
 ports:
 - port: 80
 protocol: TCP
 targetPort: 80
 selector:
 app: guestbook
 tier: frontend
 sessionAffinity: None
 type: NodePort


The variants are hard to read and maintain because the important differences are obscured.





Integrating the Configuration Language


As discussed in “Configuration-Induced Toil”, managing a large number of YAML files can take a significant amount of time. A configuration language can help simplify this task. The most straightforward approach is to emit a single Kubernetes object from each execution of Jsonnet, then pipe the resulting JSON directly into kubectl, which processes the JSON as if it’s YAML. Alternatively, you could emit a YAML stream (a sequence of such objects5) or a single kubectl list object, or have Jsonnet emit multiple files from the same config. For further discussion, see the Jsonnet website.


Developers should be aware that in general, YAML allows you to write configs that are not expressible in JSON (and therefore, can’t be generated by Jsonnet). YAML configs can contain exceptional IEEE floating-point values like NaN, or objects with nonstring fields like arrays, other objects, or null. In practice, these features are very rarely used, and Kubernetes doesn’t allow them because the config must be JSON-encoded when sent to the API.


The following snippet shows what our example Kubernetes configuration would look like in Jsonnet:



// templates.libsonnet
{
 MyTemplate:: {
 local service = self,
 tier:: error 'Needs tier',
 apiVersion: 'v1',
 kind: 'Service',

 local selector_labels = { app: 'guestbook', tier: service.tier },

 metadata: {
 labels: selector_labels,
 name: 'guestbook-' + service.tier,
 namespace: 'default',
 },

 spec: {
 externalTrafficPolicy: 'Cluster',
 ports: [{
 port: 80,
 protocol: 'TCP',
 targetPort: 80,
 }],
 selector: selector_labels,
 sessionAffinity: 'None',
 type: 'NodePort',
 },
 },
}

// example1.jsonnet
local templates = import 'templates.libsonnet';

templates.MyTemplate {
 tier: 'frontend',
}

// example2.jsonnet
local templates = import 'templates.libsonnet';

templates.MyTemplate {
 tier: 'backend',
 metadata+: {
 namespace: 'prod',
 },
}

// example3.jsonnet
local templates = import 'templates.libsonnet';

templates.MyTemplate {
 tier: 'frontend',
 metadata+: {
 namespace: 'prod',
 labels+: { foo: 'bar' },
 },
}

// example4.jsonnet
local templates = import 'templates.libsonnet';

templates.MyTemplate {
 tier: 'backend',
}


Note the following:



 
 We express all four variants by instantiating an abstract template four times, but you could also use functional abstractions.

 

 
 While we use a separate Jsonnet file for each instance, you might also consolidate them in a single file.

 

 
 In the abstract template, the namespace defaults to default and the tier must be overridden.

 

 
 At first glance, the Jsonnet is slightly more verbose, but reduces toil as the number of template instantiations grows.

 



Within MyTemplate, the local keyword defines a variable service, which is initialized to self (a reference to the closest enclosing object). This allows you to refer to the object from within nested objects, where self is redefined.


The tier field has two colons (rather than the regular JSON single colon) and is hidden (not output) in the generated JSON. Otherwise, Kubernetes will reject tier as an unrecognized field. Hidden fields can still be overridden and referenced—in this case, as service.tier.


The template cannot be used by itself because referencing service.tier triggers the error construct, which raises a runtime error with the given text. To avoid the error, each instance of the template overrides the tier field with some other expression. In other words, this pattern expresses something similar to a pure virtual/abstract method.


Using functions for abstraction means that config can only be parameterized. In contrast, templates allow you to override any field from the parent. As described in Chapter 14, while simplicity should be fundamental to your design, the ability to escape simplicity is important. Template overrides provide a useful escape hatch to change specific details that might normally be considered too low-level. For example:



templates.MyTemplate {
 tier: 'frontend',
 spec+: {
 sessionAffinity: 'ClientIP',
 },
}


Here’s a typical workflow to convert an existing template to Jsonnet:



 
 Convert one of the YAML variants to JSON.

 

 
 Run the resulting JSON through the Jsonnet formatter.

 

 
 Manually add Jsonnet constructs to abstract and instantiate the code (as shown in the example).

 



The example showed how to remove duplication while retaining certain fields that were different. Using a configuration language becomes more compelling as differences become more subtle (e.g., strings are slightly different) or challenging to express (e.g., configuration has structural differences like additional elements in arrays, or the same difference applied across all elements of an array).


In general, abstracting commonalities across different configurations promotes separation of concerns and has the same benefits as modularity in programming languages. You can take advantage of abstraction capabilities for a number of different use cases:



 
 A single team might need to create multiple versions of their configuration that are almost (but not quite) the same—for example, when managing deployments across varied environments (prod/stage/dev/test), tuning deployments on different architectures, or adjusting capacity in different geographies.

 

 
 An organization might have an infrastructure team that maintains reusable components—API serving frameworks, cache servers, or MapReduces—that are used by the application teams. For each component, the infrastructure team can maintain a template that defines the Kubernetes objects needed to run that component at scale. Each application team can instantiate that template to add the particulars of their application.

 








Integrating Custom Applications (In-House Software)


If your infrastructure utilizes any custom applications (i.e., software developed in-house, as opposed to off-the-shelf solutions), then you can design those applications to coexist with a reusable configuration language. The suggestions in this section should improve the overall user configuration experience when you are writing config files or interacting with the generated config data (e.g., for debugging purposes, or when integrating with other tools). They should also simplify the application’s design and separate configuration from data.


Your broad strategy for approaching custom applications should be to:



 
 Let the config language handle what it’s designed for: the language aspect of the problem.

 

 
 Let your application handle all other functionality.

 



The following best practices include examples that use Jsonnet, but the same recommendations apply to other languages:



 
 Consume a single pure data file, and let the config language split the config into files using imports. This mea