=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 61/100 ===

e being published. Additionally, users can modify the system time on their device, which can result in inaccurately timestamped events. For these reasons, we use the timestamp from Spotify servers.


We don’t provide any SLOs regarding the data quality or accuracy of events delivered via our event delivery system. We observed that in a majority of cases, quality depends on the content of each event, which is populated by the business logic of our customers. To allow our system to scale with the number of customers, we keep it focused exclusively on delivering data. In this regard, we use the analogy that event delivery should behave like a postal service: your mail should be delivered on time, intact, and unopened. We leave the responsibility of providing quality SLOs to our internal teams that own the business logic and therefore understand the contents of the data.







Customer Integration and Support


Many Spotify teams interact with the event delivery system daily. To encourage adoption and decrease the learning curve, we took the following steps to simplify user interaction with the event delivery system:



 Event delivery as a fully managed service
 
 We wanted to avoid exposing the complexity of the system to our customers, allowing them to focus on the specific problems they’re trying to solve. We strived to hide any system complexities behind a well-defined and easy-to-understand API.

 
 Limited functionality
 
 To keep our APIs simple, we support only a limited set of functionalities. Events can be published only in a specific in-house format, and can be delivered only to hourly buckets with a single serialization format. These simple APIs cover the majority of our use cases.

 
 Delivery of each event needs to be explicitly enabled
 
 When a customer enables delivery of an event, they define whether the event is financial-bearing and its associated timeliness requirements. Furthermore, event ownership needs to be explicitly defined as part of the enabling process. We strongly believe that holding our internal teams accountable for events they produce results in higher data quality. Explicit ownership of the events also gives us a clear channel of communication during incidents.

 



Documentation


No matter how simple interacting with the system is, good documentation is required to provide a good customer experience. Subpar and stale documentation is a common problem in fast-paced companies like Spotify. To address this, we treat our documentation like any other software product: all support requests that come to our team are treated either as issues with our documentation or as issues in the actual product. Most support requests are related to the system’s public APIs. Some examples of questions we try to answer when writing our documentation include:



 
 How is the delivery of an event type enabled?

 

 
 Where is the data delivered?

 

 
 How is the data partitioned?

 

 
 What are our SLOs?

 

 
 What kind of support should our customers expect during incidents?

 



Our goal is to minimize the amount of support requests we receive as our customer base grows.





System monitoring


Monitoring our SLOs provides high-level insights into the general health of the system. Our reliable catch-all monitoring solution ensures we always get alerted when something goes wrong. The main problem with using an SLO violation as criteria for monitoring is that we get alerted after our customers have been affected. To avoid this, we need sufficient operational monitoring of our system to resolve or mitigate issues before an SLO is broken.


We monitor the various components of our system separately, starting with basic system metrics, then building to more complex ones. For example, we monitor CPU usage as a signal for instance health. CPU usage is not always the most critical resource, but it works well as a basic signal.


Sometimes system monitoring is insufficient when we’re trying to understand and fix production issues. To supplement our monitoring data, we also maintain application logs. These logs contain important information related to the operation and health of the component they describe. We take great care to ensure we gather only the correct amount of logging data, as it’s easy for irrelevant logs to drown useful ones. For example, a bad logging implementation might log all the incoming requests for a high-volume component that deals with incoming requests. Assuming that most of the requests are similar, logging every request doesn’t add much value. Additionally, when too many requests are logged, it becomes difficult to find other log entries, disk fills up faster, and the overall performance of our service starts to degrade. A better approach is to either rate-limit the amount of logged requests, or to log only interesting requests (like the ones that result in unhandled exceptions).


Debugging components in production by reading through application logs is challenging, and should be a last resort.





Capacity planning


Reliable round-the-clock operation of the event delivery system requires the correct amount of allocated resources, especially since the components are deployed into a single GCP project and they share a common quota pool. We use capacity planning to determine how many resources each system component needs.


For the majority of our system components, capacity planning is based on CPU usage. We provision each component to have 50% of CPU usage during peak hours. This provision acts as a safety margin that allows our system to handle unexpected bursts of traffic. When Spotify ran its own datacenters, we provided each component with static resources. This led to a waste of resources during off-peak hours and an inability to handle large bursts in traffic. To improve resource utilization, we use GCE Autoscaler for some of our stateless components.


We had some growing pains in the early days of implementing Autoscaler; under certain conditions, Autoscaler can cause failures. For example, we use CPU usage as a metric to perform autoscaling. Autoscaler itself depends on a strong correlation between CPU usage and the amount of work performed by each component instance. If the relationship is broken—either through the addition of CPU-hungry daemons to each component instance or due to component instances extensively burning CPU without doing any work—Autoscaler will start far too many instances.


When Autoscaler is presented with constantly increasing CPU usage that has no correlation with the amount of work performed, it will scale indefinitely until it uses all of the resources it can find. To prevent Autoscaler from using up all of our quota, we implemented some workarounds:



 
 We limit the maximum number of instances Autoscaler can use.

 

 
 We heavily restrict the CPU usage of all daemons running on an instance.

 

 
 We aggressively throttle a component’s CPU usage as soon as we detect that no useful work is being done.

 



Even when using Autoscaler, we need to conduct capacity planning. We need to ensure that we have enough quota, and that the maximum number of instances Autoscaler can use is set high enough to serve traffic during peaks, but low enough to limit the impact of “runaway” autoscaling.





Development process


To ship new features and improvements swiftly, we developed the event delivery system (shown in Figure 13-10) following the continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) process. According to this process, valid, proven, or reviewed system changes are deployed as soon as they’re made. Having sufficient test coverage is a prerequisite for each change to be successfully deployed without negatively impacting our SLOs.


We write tests following a “testing pyramid” philosophy. This means that for each of our components, we have plenty of unit tests that focus on components’ inner workings—in addition to a smaller number of integration tests that focus on components’ public API. At the highest level of the testing pyramid, we have a system-wide, end-to-end test. In this end-to-end test, all components are treated as black boxes so the system in the test environment resembles the one in production as much as possible.


After initial development, every change goes through a peer review. As a part of the review process, all tests are executed on a shared CI/CD server, and the results are presented to the developers. Changes can be merged only after the reviewers approve the change and all the tests have successfully passed. As soon as the change is merged, the deployment process is triggered.


The event delivery system is a critical component in Spotify’s infrastructure. If it stopped delivering data, all data processing in Spotify would stall. For this reason, we decided to take a more conservative approach to deployments and deploy each change in stages. We require a manual approval before a deployment can move from one stage to another.



Figure 13-10. Development process



During the first deployment stage, the change is deployed to the staging environment. This low-risk staging system doesn’t handle production traffic. For testing purposes, a representative fraction of production traffic is mirrored in the staging system, which is a replica of the system running in production. At the second deployment stage, the change is deployed to a small subset of production instances, or canaries. We perform a full production deployment only after we ensure that everything went well, both in staging and canaries (see Chapter 16).





Incident handling


When dealing with an incident, our first priority is to mitigate the damage and return the system to a stable previous state. To avoid making the situation worse, we refrain from deploying any major changes to our components during an incident. The exception to this rule is if we conclude that the incident was caused by recently deployed new code. In such cases, we immediately roll the system back to a previous working version.


Today, the most common operational failures we encounter are caused either by a system malfunction (e.g., we introduce a software bug or a performance regression) or a failure with an external service on which we depend (e.g., an update to a service API isn’t backward-compatible or a service breaks its SLO). We use many battle-tested Google Cloud and internal Spotify ser