=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 50/100 ===




Configuring Conservatively


Using autoscaling to scale up is more important and less risky than using it to scale down since a failure to scale up can result in overload and dropped traffic. By design, most autoscaler implementations are intentionally more sensitive to jumps in traffic than to drops in traffic. When scaling up, autoscalers are inclined to add extra serving capacity quickly. When scaling down, they are more cautious and wait longer for their scaling condition to hold true before slowly reducing resources.


The load spikes you can absorb increase as your service moves further away from a bottleneck. We recommend configuring your autoscaler to keep your service far from key system bottlenecks (such as CPU). Autoscaler also needs adequate time to react, particularly when new instances cannot turn up and serve instantly. We recommend that user-facing services reserve enough spare capacity for both overload protection and redundancy.5





Setting Constraints


Autoscaler is a powerful tool; if misconfigured, it can scale out of control. You might inadvertently trigger serious consequences by introducing a bug or changing a setting. For example, consider the following scenarios:



 
 You configured autoscaling to scale based on CPU utilization. You release a new version of your system, which contains a bug causing the server to consume CPU without doing any work. Autoscaler reacts by upsizing this job again and again until all available quota is wasted.

 

 
 Nothing has changed in your service, but a dependency is failing. This failure causes all requests to get stuck on your servers and never finish, consuming resources all the while. Autoscaler will scale up the jobs, causing more and more traffic to get stuck. The increased load on your failing dependency can prevent the dependency from recovering.

 



It’s useful to constrain the work that your autoscaler is allowed to perform. Set a minimum and maximum bound for scaling, making sure that you have enough quota to scale to the set limits. Doing so prevents you from depleting your quota and helps with capacity planning.





Including Kill Switches and Manual Overrides


It’s a good idea to have a kill switch in case something goes wrong with your autoscaling. Make sure your on-call engineers understand how to disable autoscaling and how to manually scale if necessary. Your autoscaling kill switch functionality should be easy, obvious, fast, and well documented.





Avoiding Overloading Backends


A correctly configured autoscaler will scale up in response to an increase in traffic. An increase in traffic will have consequences down the stack. Backend services, such as databases, need to absorb any additional load your servers might create. Therefore, it’s a good idea to perform a detailed dependency analysis on your backend services before deploying your autoscaler, particularly as some services may scale more linearly than others. Ensure your backends have enough extra capacity to serve increased traffic and are able to degrade gracefully when overloaded. Use the data from your analysis to inform the limits of your autoscaler configuration.


Service deployments commonly run a variety of microservices that share quota. If a microservice scales up in response to a traffic spike, it might use most of the quota. If increased traffic on a single microservice means increased traffic on other microservices, there will be no available quota for the remaining microservices to grow. In this scenario, a dependency analysis can help guide you toward preemptively implementing limited scaling. Alternatively, you can implement separate quotas per microservice (which may entail splitting your service into separate projects).





Avoiding Traffic Imbalance


Some autoscalers (e.g., AWS EC2, GCP) can balance instances across regional groups of instances (RMiGs). In addition to regular autoscaling, these autoscalers run a separate job that constantly attempts to even out the size of each zone across the region. Rebalancing traffic in this way avoids having one large zone. If the system you’re using allocates quota per zone, this strategy evens out your quota usage. In addition, autoscaling across regions provides more diversity for failure domains. 







Combining Strategies to Manage Load


If your system becomes sufficiently complex, you may need to use more than one kind of load management. For example, you might run several managed instance groups that scale with load but are cloned across multiple regions for capacity; therefore, you also need to balance traffic between regions. In this case, your system needs to use both load balancing and load-based autoscaling.


Or maybe you run a website across three colocated facilities around the world. You’d like to serve locally for latency, but since it takes weeks to deploy more machines, overflow capacity needs to spill over to other locations. If your site gets popular on social media and suddenly experiences a five-fold increase in traffic, you’d prefer to serve what requests you can. Therefore, you implement load shedding to drop excess traffic. In this case, your system needs to use both load balancing and load shedding.


Or perhaps your data processing pipeline lives in a Kubernetes cluster in one cloud region. When data processing slows significantly, it provisions more pods to handle the work. However, when data comes in so fast that reading it causes you to run out of memory, or slows down garbage collection, your pods may need to shed that load temporarily or permanently. In this case, your system needs to use both load-based autoscaling and load shedding techniques.


Load balancing, load shedding, and autoscaling are all systems designed for the same goal: to equalize and stabilize the system load. Since the three systems are often implemented, installed, and configured separately, they seem independent. However, as shown in Figure 11-8, they’re not entirely independent. The following case study illustrates how these systems can interact.



Figure 11-8. A full traffic management system




Case Study 2: When Load Shedding Attacks


Imagine a fictional company, Dressy, that sells dresses online via an app. As this is a traffic-driven service, the development team at Dressy deployed their app across three regions. This deployment allows their app to respond quickly to user requests and weather single-zone failures—or so they thought.


The customer service team at Dressy starts receiving complaints that customers can’t access the app. Dressy’s development teams investigate and notice a problem: their load balancing is inexplicably drawing all user traffic into region A, even though that region is full-to-overflowing and both B and C are empty (and equally large). The timeline of events (see Figure 11-9) is as follows:



 
 At the beginning of the day, the traffic graphs showed all three clusters steady at 90 RPS.

 

 
 At 10:46 a.m., traffic started to rise in all three regions as eager shoppers began hunting for bargains.

 

 
 At 11:00 a.m., region A reached 120 RPS just before regions B and C.

 

 
 At 11:10 a.m., region A continued to grow to 400 RPS, while B and C dipped to 40 RPS.

 

 
 The load balancer settled at this state.

 

 
 The majority of requests hitting region A were returning 503 errors.

 

 
 Users whose requests hit this cluster started to complain.

 




Figure 11-9. Regional traffic



If the development team had consulted their load balancer’s fullness graphs, they would have seen something very strange. The load balancer was utilization-aware: it was reading CPU utilization from Dressy’s containers and using this information to estimate fullness. As far as it could tell, per-request CPU utilization was 10 times lower in region A than either B or C. The load balancer determined that all regions were equally loaded, and its job was done.



What was happening?


Earlier in the week, to protect against cascading overload, the team enabled load shedding. Whenever CPU utilization reached a certain threshold, a server would return an error for any new requests it received rather than attempting to process them. On this particular day, region A reached this threshold slightly ahead of the other regions. Each server began rejecting 10% of requests it received, then 20% of requests, then 50%. During this time frame, CPU usage remained constant.


As far as the load balancer system was concerned, each successive dropped request was a reduction in the per-request CPU cost. Region A was far more efficient than regions B and C. It was serving 240 RPS at 80% CPU (the shedding cap), while B and C were managing only 120 RPS. Logically, it decided to send more requests to A.





What went wrong?


In brief, the load balancer didn’t know that the “efficient” requests were errors because the load shedding and load balancing systems weren’t communicating. Each system was added and enabled separately, likely by different engineers. No one had examined them as one unified load management system.





Lessons learned


To effectively manage system load, we need to be deliberate—both in the configuration of our individual load management tools and in the management of their interactions. For example, in the Dressy case study, adding error handling to the load balancer logic would have fixed the problem. Let’s say each “error” request counts as 120% CPU utilization (any number over 100 will work). Now region A looks overloaded. Requests will spread to B and C, and the system will equalize.


You can use similar logic to extrapolate this example to any combination of load management tactics. When adopting a new load management tool, carefully examine how it interacts with other tools your system is already using and instrument their intersection. Add monitoring to detect feedback loops. Make sure your emergency shutdown triggers can be coordinated across your load management systems, and consider adding automatic shutdown triggers if these systems are behaving wildly out of control. If you don’t take appropriate precautions up front, you’ll likely have to do so in the wake of a postmortem.


It is easy to say “take precautions.” More specifically, here are some precautions you might consider, depending on the kind of load management you deploy:



 Load balancing
 
 Load balancing mini