=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 32/100 ===

shifts.


On-call is a large and complex topic, saddled with many constraints and a limited margin for trial and error. Chapter 11 of our first book (Site Reliability Engineering), “Being On-Call,” already explored this topic. This chapter addresses specific feedback and questions we received about that chapter. These include the following:



 
 “We are not Google; we’re much smaller. We don’t have as many people in the rotation, and we don’t have sites in different time zones. What you described in your first book is irrelevant to me.”

 

 
 “We have a mixture of developers and DevOps for on-call rotation. What’s the best way to organize them? Split the responsibilities?”

 

 
 “Our on-call engineer gets paged about a hundred times in a typical 24-hour shift. A lot of pages get ignored, while the real problems are buried under the pile. Where should we start?”

 

 
 “We have a high turnover rate for on-call rotations. How do you address the knowledge gap within the team?”

 

 
 “We want to reorg our DevOps team into SRE.1 What’s the difference between SRE on-call, DevOps on-call, and developers on-call? Please be specific, because the DevOps team is very concerned about this.”

 



We offer practical advice for these situations. Google is a large company with a mature SRE organization, but much of what we’ve learned over the years can be applied to any company or organization, regardless of size or maturity. Google has hundreds of on-call rotations across services of all sizes, and various on-call setups from simple to complicated. On-call is not exclusively an SRE function: many developer teams are directly on-call for their service. Each on-call setup meets the need of a particular service.


This chapter describes on-call setups both within Google and outside of Google. While your setup and situation will likely differ from our specific examples, the essential concepts we cover are widely applicable.


We then delve into the anatomy of pager load, explaining what causes pager load. We suggest strategies to optimize on-call setup and minimize that load.


Finally, we share two examples of practices inside Google: on-call flexibility and on-call team dynamics. These practices show that no matter how mathematically sound an on-call setup is, you cannot solely rely on logistics of the on-call setup. Incentives and human nature play an important role, and should also be taken into account.



Recap of “Being On-Call” Chapter of First SRE Book


Site Reliability Engineering, in “Being On-Call”, explains the principles behind on-call rotations at Google. This section discusses the main points of that chapter.


At Google, the overall goal of being on-call is to provide coverage for critical services, while making sure that we never achieve reliability at the expense of an on-call engineer’s health. As a result, SRE teams strive for balance. SRE work should be a healthy mix of duties: on-call and project work. Specifying that SREs spend at least 50% of their time on project work means that teams have time to tackle the projects required to strategically address any problems found in production. Team staffing must be adequate to ensure time for project work.


We target a maximum of two incidents per on-call shift,2 to ensure adequate time for follow-up. If the pager load gets too high, corrective action is warranted. (We explore pager load later in this chapter.)


Psychological safety3 is vital for effective on-call rotations. Since being on-call can be daunting and highly stressful, on-call engineers should be fully supported by a series of procedures and escalation paths to make their lives easier. 


On-call usually implies some amount of out-of-hours work. We believe this work should be compensated. While different companies may choose to handle this in different ways, Google offers time-off-in-lieu or cash compensation, capped at some proportion of the overall salary. The compensation scheme provides an incentive for being part of on-call, and ensures that engineers do not take on too many on-call shifts for economic reasons.





Example On-Call Setups Within Google and Outside Google


This section describes real-world examples of on-call setups at Google and Evernote, a California company that develops a cross-platform app that helps individuals and teams create, assemble, and share information. For each company, we explore the reasoning behind on-call setups, general on-call philosophy, and on-call practices.



Google: Forming a New Team



Initial scenario


A few years ago, Sara, an SRE at Google Mountain View, started a new SRE team that needed to be on-call within three months. To put this in perspective, most SRE teams at Google do not expect new hires to be ready for on-call before three to nine months. The new Mountain View SRE team would support three Google Apps services that were previously supported by an SRE team in Kirkland, Washington (a two-hour flight from Mountain View). The Kirkland team had a sister SRE team in London, which would continue to support these services alongside the new Mountain View SRE team, and distributed product development teams.4


The new Mountain View SRE team came together quickly, assembling seven people:



 
 Sara, an SRE tech lead

 

 
 Mike, an experienced SRE from another SRE team

 

 
 A transfer from a product development team who was new to SRE

 

 
 Four new hires (“Nooglers”)

 



Even when a team is mature, going on-call for new services is always challenging, and the new Mountain View SRE team was a relatively junior team. Nonetheless, the new team was able to onboard the services without sacrificing service quality or project velocity. They made immediate improvements to the services, including lowering machine costs by 40%, and fully automating release rollouts with canarying and other safety checks. The new team also continued to deliver reliable services, targeting 99.98% availability, or roughly 26 minutes of downtime per quarter.


How did the new SRE team bootstrap themselves to accomplish so much? Through starter projects, mentoring, and training.





Training roadmap


Although the new SRE team didn’t know much about their services, Sara and Mike were familiar with Google’s production environment and SRE. As the four Nooglers completed company orientation, Sara and Mike compiled a checklist of two dozen focus areas for people to practice before going on-call, such as:



 
 Administering production jobs

 

 
 Understanding debugging info

 

 
 “Draining” traffic away from a cluster

 

 
 Rolling back a bad software push

 

 
 Blocking or rate-limiting unwanted traffic

 

 
 Bringing up additional serving capacity

 

 
 Using the monitoring systems (for alerting and dashboards)

 

 
 Describing the architecture, various components, and dependencies of the services

 



The Nooglers found some of this information on their own by researching existing documentation and codelabs (guided, hands-on coding tutorials) and gained understanding on relevant topics by working on their starter projects. When a team member learned about specific topics relevant to the Nooglers’ starter projects, that person led a short, impromptu session to share that information with the rest of the team. Sara and Mike covered the remaining topics. The team also held lab sessions to perform common debugging and mitigation tasks to help everyone build muscle memory and gain confidence in their abilities.


In addition to the checklist, the new SRE team ran a series of “deep dives” to dig into their services. The team browsed monitoring consoles, identified running jobs, and tried debugging recent pages. Sara and Mike explained that an engineer didn’t need years of expertise with each of the services to become reasonably proficient. They coached the team to explore a service from first principles, and encouraged Nooglers to become familiar with the services. They were open about the limits of their knowledge, and taught others when to ask for help.


Throughout the ramp-up, the new SRE team wasn’t alone. Sara and Mike traveled to meet the other SRE teams and product developers and learn from them. The new SRE team met with the Kirkland and London teams by holding video conferences, exchanging email, and chatting over IRC. In addition, the team attended weekly production meetings, read daily on-call handoffs and postmortems, and browsed existing service documentation. A Kirkland SRE visited to give talks and answer questions. A London SRE put together a thorough set of disaster scenarios and ran them during Google’s disaster recovery training week (see the section “Preparedness and Disaster Testing” in Site Reliability Engineering, Chapter 33).


The team also practiced being on-call through “Wheel of Misfortune” training exercises (see the section “Disaster Role Playing” in Site Reliability Engineering, Chapter 28), where they role-played recent incidents to practice debugging production problems. During these sessions, all SREs were encouraged to offer suggestions on how to resolve mock production failures. After everyone ramped up, the team still held these sessions, rotating through each team member as the session leader. The team recorded these for future reference.


Before going on-call, the team reviewed precise guidelines about the responsibilities of on-call engineers. For example:



 
 At the start of each shift, the on-call engineer reads the handoff from the previous shift.

 

 
 The on-call engineer minimizes user impact first, then makes sure the issues are fully addressed.

 

 
 At the end of the shift, the on-call engineer sends a handoff email to the next engineer on-call.

 



The guidelines also specified when to escalate to others, and how to write postmortems for large incidents.


Finally, the team read and updated on-call playbooks. Playbooks contain high-level instructions on how to respond to automated alerts. They explain the severity and impact of the alert, and include debugging suggestions and possible actions to take to mitigate impact and fully resolve the alert. In SRE, whenever an alert is created, a corresponding playbook entry is usually created. These guides reduce stress, the mean time to repair (MTTR), and the risk of human error.



Maintaining Playbooks


Details in playbooks go out of date at the same