=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 81/100 ===

mber of ways, but these principles for relationship management should always hold true. For sustaining the long-term success of an engagement, investing in aligning team goals and understanding each other’s objectives is as important as defending SLOs. 



1 Google HR supports employees by finding new opportunities when such transitions occur.

SRE: Reaching Beyond Your Walls

Chapter 19. SRE: Reaching Beyond Your Walls


By Dave Rensin

with Betsy Beyer, Niall Richard Murphy, and Liz Fong-Jones


It has been 14 years since we started practicing SRE at Google. Some of what has come in that time seems obvious in retrospect, while other developments came as something of a shock. The past two years since the publication of our first SRE book have been especially interesting. The number of companies now practicing the SRE discipline and the amount of time we spend talking about it at conferences and with customers has grown beyond anything we previously imagined.


That change in particular—the rapid expansion of the non-Google ecosystem around SRE—is the most exciting development, but it makes predicting the future of the SRE profession more difficult. Still, in our own SRE work at Google we are starting to see some trends that might inform an outline of the profession’s future. This chapter represents our effort to share what we, along with our SRE coworkers around the globe, have seen, and what we have concluded so far.



Truths We Hold to Be Self-Evident


The only way to make any useful sense of the future is to start with a set of principles and work forward. Some of what follows should be uncontroversial. Other bits, not so much. In every case, though, these principles are based on real things we’re seeing in the world.



Reliability Is the Most Important Feature


People don’t normally disagree much with us when we assert that “reliability is the most important feature of any system”—as long as we take care to point out that “reliability” often covers a wide area.


The argument is simple enough:



 
 If a system isn’t reliable, users won’t trust it.

 

 
 If users don’t trust a system, when given a choice, they won’t use it.

 

 
 Since all software systems are governed by network effects, if a system has no users, it’s worth nothing.

 

 
 You are what you measure, so choose your metrics carefully.

 






Your Users, Not Your Monitoring, Decide Your Reliability


Since the value of a system is related to its users, it stands to reason that the only measure of reliability that matters is how your users experience reliability. If your user is worried that your platform is responsible for instability they’re experiencing, then telling them “our monitoring looks fine; the problem must be on your end” won’t make them any less grumpy. They’re experiencing your system as unstable, and that’s what they will remember when the time comes to choose between you and your competitor. (This phenomenon is called the peak-end rule.)


Your monitoring, logs, and alerting are valuable only insofar as they help you notice problems before your customers do.





If You Run a Platform, Then Reliability Is a Partnership


If the only way for someone to use your system is via a visual user interface (e.g., a web page) and your system is consumed only by actual human beings (as opposed to machines), then the reliability your users experience is almost exclusively tied to the job you do as an SRE keeping your system healthy.


However, once you add an API and some of your “users” are actually other machines, you are running a platform and the rules change.


When your product acts as a platform, the reliability your users experience isn’t limited to the choices you make. Reliability becomes a partnership. If your users build or operate a system on your platform that never achieves better than 99% availability—even if you’re running your platform at 99.999% availability—then their best-case experience is 98.99901%.


The choices these users make directly affect the experience they have and associate with your service. You might not like it, but they will hold you accountable for whatever they experience—even if it’s not “your fault.”





Everything Important Eventually Becomes a Platform


Since the value of your system increases with the number of people using it, you will want to find ways to reach other large established user pools. As you attract more users, other software systems will want to reach your audience, too.


This is when other companies start making their machines talk to your machines via APIs. If your system is even remotely popular, integration is an inevitable step in your evolution.


Even if you decide that you don’t care about other user communities, and decide to never create a machine-consumable API, you still won’t be able to avoid this future. Other people will simply wrap your UI into a machine API and consume it. The only difference is that you’ll have no control over the outcome.


Once your system becomes a gateway to a large collection of users, it becomes valuable. APIs—official or unofficial—will be a part of your future.





When Your Customers Have a Hard Time, You Have to Slow Down


When your customers have a hard time, their frustration turns into friction for you. Even if you don’t have traditional modes of support (trouble tickets, email, phone, etc.), you will still spend time triaging questions and responding to complaints via StackOverflow, or even Twitter, Facebook, and other social platforms.


Whatever energy you put into helping users past their difficult moments is energy you can’t invest in advancing your system. We have seen many teams (and companies) allow their time to be slowly absorbed by break/fix customer problems—leaving an ever-diminishing innovation budget. These teams are consumed by toil.


Once in this state, it’s hard to dig out (see Chapter 6). A better plan is to get ahead of the impending toil. You might be reading this and thinking, Gee, I’m on an internal platform team. This doesn’t apply to me!


We’re sorry to inform you that this doubly applies to you! In your case, your customers are the consumers of your system within your company.


This leads us to the next conclusion.





You Will Need to Practice SRE with Your Customers


If you want your customers to design and operate reliable systems using your platform, you have to teach them how to do it. Yes, this includes your internal customers, too. Just because you work on an internal platform team doesn’t mean you escape this dynamic—in fact, you’re likeliest to run into it first.


Even if you could perfectly distill that information into highly scaled one-to-many forms (books, blog posts, architecture diagrams, videos, etc.), you still need a way to figure out what content and training to include. As you grow and improve your platform, those lessons will change. You will always need a way to keep these resources from getting stale.


The best way to learn these lessons is to “do SRE” with your customers.


That doesn’t necessarily mean you need to take the pagers for your customers’ systems, but you do need to undertake most of the work that normally leads up to pager handoff (meaning the system has met certain minimum viable reliability requirements), with at least a representative sample of your users.







How to: SRE with Your Customers


The idea of walking an SRE journey with your customers might seem a little daunting. You’re probably reading this book because you’re not entirely sure how to walk it yourself! No worries. It’s possible to do both at the same time. In fact, the former can help you accelerate the latter.


Here are the steps we like to follow. They work pretty well for us, and we think they’ll be useful for you, too.



Step 1: SLOs and SLIs Are How You Speak


You want your customers to perceive your system as reliable. Otherwise, you risk losing them. It stands to reason, therefore, that you should care a lot about how they form those opinions. What do they measure? How do they measure it? Most importantly, what promises are they making to their customers?


Your life will be a lot better if your customers measure SLIs and alert on SLOs, and if they share those measurements with you. Otherwise, you will spend a lot of energy in conversations like this:



Customer: API call X usually takes time T, but now it’s taking time U. I think you are having a problem. Please look into it and get back to me immediately.


You: That performance seems in line with what we expect, and everything looks fine on our end. Is it a problem if API call X takes this long?


Customer: I don’t know. It doesn’t usually take this long, so obviously something has changed and we’re worried about it.



This conversation will go round in circles and never reach a satisfactory answer. You will either spend a lot of time convincing your customer that they shouldn’t care, or you will spend a lot of time root-causing the change so you can convince your customer they shouldn’t care. In either case, you’re spending a lot of effort that you could be using elsewhere.


The root cause of this problem is that the customer isn’t using SLOs to figure out if they should care about the performance they’re seeing. They’re just noticing an unexpected change and deciding to worry about it. Remember, in the absence of a stated SLO, your customer will inevitably invent one and not tell you until you don’t meet it! You’d much rather have this conversation:



Customer: We’re burning through our SLO for application FOO too quickly and the application is in jeopardy. SLIs X and Y seem to have fallen off a cliff. They both depend on your API X.


You: Okay. Let me look into how API X is performing in our system and/or how it’s performing specific to you.



That’s a much more productive conversation because (a) it will happen only when the SLO is threatened, and (b) it relies on mutually understood metrics (SLIs) and targets (SLOs).


If you’re running your systems using SRE practices, then you are speaking SLOs internally. Your life will be better and your customers will be happier if they are speaking SLOs, too, because it makes it easier for the two of you to talk.


We recommend a simple exercise to make your working relationship with a customer a lot better: sit down with your customer. Explain SLOs, SLIs, and er