=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 22/100 ===

tive functionality, such as when a user clicks a button to see how much money their advertising inventory has made this month.

 HIGH_SLOW
 For important but less latency-sensitive functionality, such as when a user clicks a button to generate a report of all advertising campaigns over the past few years, and does not expect the data to return instantly.

 LOW
 For requests that must have some availability, but for which outages are mostly invisible to users—for example, polling handlers for account notifications that can fail for long periods of time with no user impact.

 NO_SLO
 For functionality that is completely invisible to the user—for example, dark launches or alpha functionality that is explicitly outside of any SLO.



By grouping requests rather than placing unique availability and latency objectives on all request types, you can group requests into five buckets, like the example in Table 5-10.



 Table 5-10. Request class buckets according to similar availability requirements and thresholds
 
 
 Request class
 Availability
 Latency @ 90%a
 Latency @ 99%
 

 
 
 
 CRITICAL
 99.99%
 100 ms
 200 ms
 

 
 HIGH_FAST
 99.9%
 100 ms
 200 ms
 

 
 HIGH_SLOW
 99.9%
 1,000 ms
 5,000 ms
 

 
 LOW
 99%
 None
 None
 

 
 NO_SLO
 None
 None
 None
 

 
a Ninety percent of requests are faster than this threshold.



These buckets provide sufficient fidelity for protecting user happiness, but entail less toil than a system that is more complicated and expensive to manage that probably maps more precisely to the user experience.





Conclusion


If you set SLOs that are meaningful, understood, and represented in metrics, you can configure alerting to notify an on-caller only when there are actionable, specific threats to the error budget.


The techniques for alerting on significant events range from alerting when your error rate goes above your SLO threshold to using multiple levels of burn rate and window sizes. In most cases, we believe that the multiwindow, multi-burn-rate alerting technique is the most appropriate approach to defending your application’s SLOs.


We hope we have given you the context and tools required to make the right configuration decisions for your own application and organization.



1 Duration clauses can occasionally be useful when you are filtering out ephemeral noise over very short durations. However, you still need to be aware of the cons listed in this section.
2 As described in the introduction to Site Reliability Engineering, pages and tickets are the only valid ways to get a human to take action.
3 The section “What to Measure: Using SLIs” recommends a style of SLI that scales according to the impact on the user.
4 See “Overloads and Failure” in Site Reliability Engineering.
5 With the exception of temporary changes to alerting parameters, which are necessary when you’re fixing an ongoing outage and you don’t need to receive notifications during that period.

Eliminating Toil

Chapter 6. Eliminating Toil


By David Challoner, Joanna Wijntjes, David Huska,

Matthew Sartwell, Chris Coykendall, Chris Schrier,

John Looney, and Vivek Rau

with Betsy Beyer, Max Luebbe, Alex Perry,
and Murali Suriar


Google SREs spend much of their time optimizing—squeezing every bit of performance from a system through project work and developer collaboration. But the scope of optimization isn’t limited to compute resources: it’s also important that SREs optimize how they spend their time. Primarily, we want to avoid performing tasks classified as toil. For a comprehensive discussion of toil, see Chapter 5 in Site Reliability Engineering. For the purposes of this chapter, we’ll define toil as the repetitive, predictable, constant stream of tasks related to maintaining a service.


Toil is seemingly unavoidable for any team that manages a production service. System maintenance inevitably demands a certain amount of rollouts, upgrades, restarts, alert triaging, and so forth. These activities can quickly consume a team if left unchecked and unaccounted for. Google limits the time SRE teams spend on operational work (including both toil- and non-toil-intensive work) at 50% (for more context on why, see Chapter 5 in our first book). While this target may not be appropriate for your organization, there’s still an advantage to placing an upper bound on toil, as identifying and quantifying toil is the first step toward optimizing your team’s time.



What Is Toil?


Toil tends to fall on a spectrum measured by the following characteristics, which are described in our first book. Here, we provide a concrete example for each toil characteristic:



 Manual
 When the tmp directory on a web server reaches 95% utilization, engineer Anne logs in to the server and scours the filesystem for extraneous log files to delete.

 Repetitive
 A full tmp directory is unlikely to be a one-time event, so the task of fixing it is repetitive.

 Automatable1
 If your team has remediation documents with content like “log in to X, execute this command, check the output, restart Y if you see…,” these instructions are essentially pseudocode to someone with software development skills! In the tmp directory example, the solution has been partially automated. It would be even better to fully automate the problem detection and remediation by not requiring a human to run the script. Better still, submit a patch so that the software no longer breaks in this way.

 Nontactical/reactive
 When you receive too many alerts along the lines of “disk full” and “server down,” they distract engineers from higher-value engineering and potentially mask other, higher-severity alerts. As a result, the health of the service suffers.

 Lacks enduring value
 Completing a task often brings a satisfying sense of accomplishment, but this repetitive satisfaction isn’t a positive in the long run. For example, closing that alert-generated ticket ensured that the user queries continued to flow and HTTP requests continued to serve with status codes < 400, which is good. However, resolving the ticket today won’t prevent the issue in the future, so the payback has a short duration.

 Grows at least as fast as its source
 Many classes of operational work grow as fast as (or faster than) the size of the underlying infrastructure. For example, you can expect time spent performing hardware repairs to increase in lock-step fashion with the size of a server fleet. Physical repair work may unavoidably scale with the number of machines, but ancillary tasks (for example, making software/configuration changes) doesn’t necessarily have to.



Sources of toil may not always meet all of these criteria, but remember that toil comes in many forms. In addition to the preceding traits, consider the effect a particular piece of work has on team morale. Do people enjoy doing a task and find it rewarding, or is it the type of work that’s often neglected because it’s viewed as boring or unrewarding?2 Toil can slowly deflate team morale. Time spent working on toil is generally time not spent thinking critically or expressing creativity; reducing toil is an acknowledgment that an engineer’s effort is better utilized in areas where human judgment and expression are possible.



Example: Manual Response to Toil



by John Looney, Production Engineering Manager at Facebook,
 and always an SRE at heart



It’s not always clear that a certain chunk of work is toil. Sometimes, a “creative” solution—writing a workaround—is not the right call. Ideally, your organization should reward root-cause fixes over fixes that simply mask a problem.


My first assignment after joining Google (April 2005) was to log in to broken machines, investigate why they were broken, then fix them or send them to a hardware technician. This task seemed simple until I realized there were over 20,000 broken machines at any given time!


The first broken machine I investigated had a root filesystem that was completely full with gigabytes of nonsense logs from a Google-patched network driver. I found another thousand broken machines with the same problem. I shared my plan to address the issue with my teammate: I’d write a script to ssh into all broken machines and check if the root filesystem was full. If the filesystem was full, the script would truncate any logs larger than a megabyte in /var/log and restart syslog.


My teammate’s less-than-enthusiastic reaction to my plan gave me pause. He pointed out that it’s better to fix root causes when possible. In the medium to long term, writing a script that masked the severity of the problem would waste time (by not fixing the actual problem) and potentially cause more problems later.


Analysis demonstrated that each server probably cost $1 per hour. According to my train of thought, shouldn’t cost be the most important metric? I hadn’t considered that if I fixed the symptom, there would be no incentive to fix the root cause: the kernel team’s release test suite didn’t check the volume of logs these machines produced.


The senior engineer directed me at the kernel source so I could find the offensive line of code and log a bug against the kernel team to improve their test suite. My objective cost/benefit analysis showing that the problem was costing Google $1,000 per hour convinced the devs to fix the problem with my patch.


My patch was turned into a new kernel release that evening, and the next day I rolled it out to the affected machines. The kernel team updated their test suite later the following week. Instead of the short-term endorphin hit of fixing those machines every morning, I now had the more cerebral pleasure of knowing that I’d fixed the problem properly.







Measuring Toil


How do you know how much of your operational work is toil? And once you’ve decided to take action to reduce toil, how do you know if your efforts were successful or justified? Many SRE teams answer these questions with a combination of experience and intuition. While such tactics might produce results, we can improve upon them.


Experience and intuition are not repeatable, objective, or transferable. Members of the same team or organization often arrive at different conclusions regarding the magnitude of engineering effort lost to toil, and therefore prioritize remediation efforts differently. Furthermore, toil reduction efforts can span quarters or even years (as demonstrated by s