=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 71/100 ===

anary process into our deployment, we learn valuable information about our new version at a much lower cost to our system.


This is a very simple model that assumes uniform load. It also assumes that we can spend our entire error budget (beyond what we’ve already included in the organic measurement of current availability) on canaries. Rather than actual availability, here we consider only unavailability introduced by new releases. Our model also assumes a 100% failure rate because this is a worst-case scenario.3 It is likely that defects in the canary deployment will not affect 100% of system usage. We also allow overall system availability to go below SLO for the duration of the canary deployment.4


This model has clear flaws, but is a solid starting point that you can adjust to match business needs.5 We recommend using the simplest model that meets your technical and business objectives. In our experience, focusing on making the model as technically correct as possible often leads to overinvestment in modeling. For services with high rates of complexity, overly complex models can lead to incessant model tuning for no real benefit.





Choosing a Canary Population and Duration


When choosing an appropriate canary duration, you need to factor in development velocity. If you release daily, you can’t let your canary last for a week while running only one canary deployment at a time. If you deploy weekly, you have time to perform fairly long canaries. If you deploy continuously (for example, 20 times in a day), your canary duration must be significantly shorter. On a related note, while we can run multiple canary deployments simultaneously, doing so adds significant mental effort to track system state. This can become problematic during any nonstandard circumstances, when reasoning about the system’s state quickly is important. Running simultaneous canaries also increases the risk of signal contamination if the canaries overlap. We strongly advise running only one canary deployment at a time.


For basic evaluation, we do not need a terribly large canary population in order to detect key critical conditions.6 However, a representative canary process requires decisions across many dimensions:



 Size and duration
 
 It should be sizeable and last long enough to be representative of the overall deployment. Terminating a canary deployment after receiving just a handful of queries doesn’t provide a useful signal for systems characterized by diverse queries with varied functionality. The higher the processing rate, the less time is required to get a representative sample in order to ensure the observed behavior is actually attributable to the canaried change, and not just a random artifact.

 
 Traffic volume
 
 We need to receive enough traffic on the system to ensure it has handled a representative sample, and that the system has a chance to react negatively to the inputs. Typically, the more homogeneous the requests, the less traffic volume you need.

 
 Time of day
 
 Performance defects typically manifest only under heavy load,7 so deploying at an off-peak time likely wouldn’t trigger performance-related defects.

 
 Metrics to evaluate
 
 The representativeness of a canary is tightly connected to the metrics we choose to evaluate (which we’ll discuss later in this chapter). We can evaluate trivial metrics like query success quickly, but other metrics (such as queue depth) may need more time or a large canary population to provide a clear signal.

 


Frustratingly, these requirements can be mutually at odds. Canarying is a balancing act, informed both by cold analysis of worst-case scenarios and the past realistic track record of a system. Once you’ve gathered metrics from past canaries, you can choose canary parameters based upon typical canary evaluation failure rates rather than hypothetical worst-case scenarios.







Selecting and Evaluating Metrics


So far, we have been looking at the success ratio, a very clear and obvious metric for canary evaluation. But intuitively, we know this single metric is not sufficient for a meaningful canary process. If we serve all requests at 10 times the latency, or use 10 times as much memory while doing so, we might also have a problem. Not all metrics are good candidates for evaluating a canary. What properties of metrics are best suited for evaluating whether a canary is good or bad?



Metrics Should Indicate Problems


First and foremost, the metric needs to be able to indicate problems in the service. This is tricky because what constitutes a “problem” isn’t always objective. We can probably consider a failed user request problematic.8 But what if a request takes 10% longer, or the system requires 10% more memory? We typically recommend using SLIs as a place to start thinking about canary metrics. Good SLIs tend to have strong attribution to service health. If SLIs are already being measured to drive SLO compliance, we can reuse that work.


Almost any metric can be problematic when taken to the extreme, but there’s also a cost to adding too many metrics to your canary process. We need to correctly define a notion of acceptable behavior for each of the metrics. If the idea of acceptable behavior is overly strict, we will get lots of false positives; that is, we will think a canary deployment is bad, even though it isn’t. Conversely, if a definition of acceptable behavior is too loose, we will be more likely to let a bad canary deployment go undetected. Choosing what’s acceptable behavior correctly can be an expensive process—it’s time-consuming and requires analysis. When it’s done poorly, however, your results can completely mislead you. Also, you need to reevaluate expectations on a regular basis as the service, its feature set, and its behavior evolve.


We should stack-rank the metrics we want to evaluate based on our opinion of how well they indicate actual user-perceivable problems in the system. Select the top few metrics to use in canary evaluations (perhaps no more than a dozen). Too many metrics can bring diminishing returns, and at some point, the returns are outweighed by the cost of maintaining them, or the negative impact on trust in the release process if they are not maintained.


To make this guideline more tangible, let’s look at our example service. It has many metrics we might evaluate: CPU usage, memory footprint, HTTP return codes (200s, 300s, etc.), latency of response, correctness, and so on. In this case, our best metrics are likely the HTTP return codes and latency of response because their degradation most closely maps to an actual problem that impacts users. In this scenario, metrics for CPU usage aren’t as useful: an increase in resource usage doesn’t necessarily impact a service and may result in a flaky or noisy canary process. This can result in the canary process being disabled or ignored by operators, which can defeat the point of having a canary process in the first place. In the case of frontend services, we intuitively know that being slower or failing to respond are typically reliable signals that there are problems in the service.


HTTP return codes contain interesting tricky cases, such as code 404, which tells us the resource was not found. This could happen because users get the wrong URL (imagine a broken URL getting shared on a popular discussion board), or because the server incorrectly stops serving a resource. Often we can work around problems like this by excluding 400-level codes from our canary evaluation and adding black-box monitoring to test for the presence of a particular URL. We can then include the black-box data as part of our canary analysis to help isolate our canary process from odd user behaviors.





Metrics Should Be Representative and Attributable


The source of changes in the observed metrics should be clearly attributable to the change we are canarying, and should not be influenced by external factors.


In a large population (for example, many servers or many containers), we are likely to have outliers—oversubscribed machines, machines running different kernels with different performance characteristics, or machines on an overloaded segment of the network. The difference between the canary population and the control is just as much a function of the change we have deployed as the difference between the two infrastructures on which we deploy.


Managing canaries is a balancing act between a number of forces. Increasing the size of the canary population is one way to decrease impact of this problem (as discussed earlier). When we reach what we consider a reasonable canary population size for our system, we need to consider whether the metrics we have chosen could show high variance.


We should also be aware of shared failure domains between our canary and control environments; a bad canary could negatively impact the control, while bad behavior in the system might lead us to incorrectly evaluate the canary. Similarly, make sure that your metrics are well isolated. Consider a system that runs both our application and other processes. A dramatic increase in CPU usage of the system as a whole would make for a poor metric, as other processes in the system (database load, log rotation, etc.) might be causing that increase. A better metric would be CPU time spent as the process served the request. An even better metric would be CPU time spent serving the request over the window of time the serving process was actually scheduled on a CPU. While a heavily oversubscribed machine colocated with our process is obviously a problem (and monitoring should catch it!), it isn’t caused by the change we’re canarying, so it should not be flagged as a canary deployment failure.


Canaries also need to be attributable; that is, you should also be able to tie the canary metric to SLIs. If a metric can change wildly with no impact to service, it’s unlikely to make a good canary metric.


