=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 24/100 ===




Engineer Toil Out of the System


The optimal strategy for handling toil is to eliminate it at the source. Before investing effort in managing the toil generated by your existing systems and processes, examine whether you can reduce or eliminate that toil by changing the system.


A team that runs a system in production has invaluable experience with how that system works. They know the quirks and tedious bits that cause the most amount of toil. An SRE team should apply this knowledge by working with product development teams to develop operationally friendly software that is not only less toilsome, but also more scalable, secure, and resilient.





Reject the Toil


A toil-laden team should make data-driven decisions about how best to spend their time and engineering effort. In our experience, while it may seem counterproductive, rejecting a toil-intensive task should be the first option you consider. For a given set of toil, analyze the cost of responding to the toil versus not doing so. Another tactic is to intentionally delay the toil so that tasks accumulate for batch or parallelized processing. Working with toil in larger aggregates reduces interrupts and helps you identify patterns of toil, which you can then target for elimination.





Use SLOs to Reduce Toil


As discussed in Chapter 2, services should have a documented service level objective (SLO). A well-defined SLO enables engineers to make informed decisions. For example, you might ignore certain operational tasks if doing so does not consume or exceed the service’s error budget. An SLO that focuses on overall service health, rather than individual devices, is more flexible and sustainable as the service grows. See Chapter 2 for guidance on writing effective SLOs.





Start with Human-Backed Interfaces


If you have a particularly complex business problem with many edge cases or types of requests, consider a partially automated approach as an interim step toward full automation. In this approach, your service receives structured data—usually via a defined API—but engineers may still handle some of the resulting operations. Even if some manual effort remains, this “engineer behind the curtain” approach allows you to incrementally move toward full automation. Use customer input to progress toward a more uniform way of collecting this data; by decreasing free-form requests, you can move closer to handling all requests programmatically. This approach can save back and forth with customers (who now have clear indicators of the information you need) and save you from overengineering a big-bang solution before you’ve fully mapped and understood the domain.





Provide Self-Service Methods


Once you’ve defined your service offering via a typed interface (see “Start with Human-Backed Interfaces”), move to providing self-service methods for users. You can provide a web form, binary or script, API, or even just documentation that tells users how to issue pull requests to your service’s configuration files. For example, rather than asking engineers to file a ticket to provision a new virtual machine for their development work, give them a simple web form or script that triggers the provisioning. Allow the script to gracefully degrade to a ticket for specialized requests or if a failure occurs.4 Human-backed interfaces are a good start in the war against toil, but service owners should always aim to make their offerings self-service where possible.





Get Support from Management and Colleagues


In the short term, toil reduction projects reduce the staff available to address feature requests, performance improvements, and other operational tasks. But if the toil reduction is successful, in the long term the team will be healthier and happier, and have more time for engineering improvements.


It is important for everyone in the organization to agree that toil reduction is a worthwhile goal. Manager support is crucial in defending staff from new demands. Use objective metrics about toil to make the case for pushback.





Promote Toil Reduction as a Feature


To create strong business cases for toil reduction, look for opportunities to couple your strategy with other desirable features or business goals. If a complementary goal—for example, security, scalability, or reliability—is compelling to your customers, they’ll be more willing to give up their current toil-generating systems for shiny new ones that aren’t as toil intentive. Then, reducing toil is just a nice side effect of helping users!





Start Small and Then Improve


Don’t try to design the perfect system that eliminates all toil. Automate a few high-priority items first, and then improve your solution using the time you gained by eliminating that toil, applying the lessons learned along the way. Pick clear metrics such as MTTR (Mean Time to Repair) to measure your success.





Increase Uniformity


At scale, a diverse production environment becomes exponentially harder to manage. Special devices require time-consuming and error-prone ongoing management and incident response. You can use the “pets versus cattle” approach5 to add redundancy and enforce consistency in your environment. Choosing what to consider cattle depends on the needs and scale of an organization. It may be reasonable to evaluate network links, switches, machines, racks of machines, or even entire clusters as interchangeable units.


Shifting devices to a cattle philosophy may have a high initial cost, but can reduce the cost of maintenance, disaster recovery, and resource utilization in the medium to long term. Equipping multiple devices with the same interface implies that they have consistent configuration, are interchangeable, and require less maintenance. A consistent interface (to divert traffic, restore traffic, perform a shutdown, etc.) for a variety of devices allows for more flexible and scalable automation.


Google aligns business incentives to encourage engineering teams to unify across our ever-evolving toolkit of internal technologies and tools. Teams are free to choose their own approaches, but they have to own the toil generated by unsupported tools or legacy systems.





Assess Risk Within Automation


Automation can save countless hours in human labor, but in the wrong circumstances, it can also trigger outages. In general, defensive software is always a good idea; when automation wields admin-level powers, defensive software is crucial. Every action should be assessed for its safety before execution. This includes changes that might reduce serving capacity or redundancy. When you’re implementing automation, we recommend the following practices:



 
 Handle user input defensively, even if that input is flowing from upstream systems—that is, be sure to validate the input carefully in context.

 

 
 Build in safeguards that are equivalent to the types of indirect alerts that a human operator might receive. Safeguards might be as simple as command timeouts, or might be more sophisticated checks of current system metrics or the number of current outages. For this reason, monitoring, alerting, and instrumentation systems should be consumable by both machine and human operators.

 

 
 Be aware that even read operations, naively implemented, can spike device load and trigger outages. As automation scales, these safety checks can eventually dominate workload.

 

 
 Minimize the impact of outages caused by incomplete safety checks of automation. Automation should default to human operators if it runs into an unsafe condition.

 






Automate Toil Response


Once you identify a piece of toil as automatable, it’s worthwhile to consider how to best mirror the human workflow in software. You rarely want to literally transcribe a human workflow into a machine workflow. Also note that automation shouldn’t eliminate human understanding of what’s going wrong.


Once your process is thoroughly documented, try to break down the manual work into components that can be implemented separately and used to create a composable software library that other automation projects can reuse later. As the upcoming datacenter repair case study illustrates, automation often provides the opportunity to reevaluate and simplify human workflows.





Use Open Source and Third-Party Tools


Sometimes you don’t have to do all of the work to reduce toil yourself. Many efforts like one-off migrations may not justify building their own bespoke tooling, but you’re probably not the first organization to tread this path. Look for opportunities to use or extend third-party or open source libraries to reduce development costs, or at least to help you transition to partial automation.





Use Feedback to Improve


It’s important to actively seek feedback from other people who interact with your tools, workflows, and automation. Your users will make different assumptions about your tools depending on their understanding of the underlying systems. The less familiar your users are with these systems, the more important it is to actively seek feedback from users. Leverage surveys, user experience (UX) studies, and other mechanisms to understand how your tools are used, and integrate this feedback to produce more effective automation in the future.


Human input is only one dimension of feedback you should consider. Also measure the effectiveness of automated tasks according to metrics like latency, error rate, rework rate, and human time saved (across all groups involved in the process). Ideally, find high-level measures you can compare before and after any automation or toil reduction efforts.



Legacy Systems


Most engineers with SRE-like responsibilities have encountered at least one legacy system in their work. These older systems often introduce problems with respect to user experience, security, reliability, or scalability. They tend to operate like a magical black box in that they “mostly work,” but few people understand how they work. They’re scary and expensive to modify, and keeping them running often requires a good deal of toilsome operational ritual.


The journey away from a legacy system usually follows this path:



 
 Avoidance: There are many reasons to not tackle this problem head on: you may not have the resources to replace this system. You judge the cost and risk to your business as not worth the cost of a replacement. There may not be 