=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 18/100 ===




Outcome


The team no longer had the cognitive load of managing the correct one-off log query. Accordingly, they could get the results they needed faster (although not as quickly as a metrics-based approach). They also had a backup plan: they could run the script automatically as soon as an alert triggered, and use a small server to query the logs at regular intervals to constantly retrieve semifresh data.











Managing Your Monitoring System


Your monitoring system is as important as any other service you run. As such, it should be treated with the appropriate level of care and attention.



Treat Your Configuration as Code


Treating system configuration as code and storing it in the revision control system are common practices that provide some obvious benefits: change history, links from specific changes to your task tracking system, easier rollbacks and linting checks,1 and enforced code review procedures.


We strongly recommend also treating monitoring configuration as code (for more on configuration, see Chapter 14). A monitoring system that supports intent-based configuration is preferable to systems that only provide web UIs or CRUD-style APIs. This configuration approach is standard for many open source binaries that only read a configuration file. Some third-party solutions like grafanalib enable this approach for components that are traditionally configured with a UI.





Encourage Consistency


Large companies with multiple engineering teams who use monitoring need to strike a fine balance: a centralized approach provides consistency, but on the other hand, individual teams may want full control over the design of their configuration.


The right solution depends on your organization. Google’s approach has evolved over time toward convergence on a single framework run centrally as a service. This solution works well for us for a few reasons. A single framework enables engineers to ramp up faster when they switch teams, and makes collaboration during debugging easier. We also have a centralized dashboarding service, where each team’s dashboards are discoverable and accessible. If you easily understand another team’s dashboard, you can debug both your issues and theirs more quickly.


If possible, make basic monitoring coverage effortless. If all your services2 export a consistent set of basic metrics, you can automatically collect those metrics across your entire organization and provide a consistent set of dashboards. This approach means that any new component you launch automatically has basic monitoring. Many teams across your company—even nonengineering teams—can use this monitoring data.





Prefer Loose Coupling


Business requirements change, and your production system will look different a year from now. Similarly, your monitoring system needs to evolve over time as the services it monitors evolve through different patterns of failure.


We recommend keeping the components of your monitoring system loosely coupled. You should have stable interfaces for configuring each component and passing monitoring data. Separate components should be in charge of collecting, storing, alerting, and visualizing your monitoring. Stable interfaces make it easier to swap out any given component for a better alternative.


Splitting functionality into individual components is becoming popular in the open source world. A decade ago, monitoring systems like Zabbix combined all functions into a single component. Modern design usually involves separating collection and rule evaluation (with a solution like Prometheus server), long-term time series storage (InfluxDB), alert aggregation (Alertmanager), and dashboarding (Grafana).


As of this writing, there are at least two popular open standards for instrumenting your software and exposing metrics:



 statsd
 The metric aggregation daemon initially written by Etsy and now ported to a majority of programming languages.

 Prometheus
 An open source monitoring solution with a flexible data model, support for metric labels, and robust histogram functionality. Other systems are now adopting the Prometheus format, and it is being standardized as OpenMetrics.



A separate dashboarding system that can use multiple data sources provides a central and unified overview of your service. Google recently saw this benefit in practice: our legacy monitoring system (Borgmon3) combined dashboards in the same configuration as alerting rules. While migrating to a new system (Monarch), we decided to move dashboarding into a separate service (Viceroy). Because Viceroy was not a component of Borgmon or Monarch, Monarch had fewer functional requirements. Since users could use Viceroy to display graphs based on data from both monitoring systems, they could gradually migrate from Borgmon to Monarch. 







Metrics with Purpose


Chapter 5 covers how to monitor and alert using SLI metrics when a system’s error budget is under threat. SLI metrics are the first metrics you want to check when SLO-based alerts trigger. These metrics should appear prominently in your service’s dashboard, ideally on its landing page.


When investigating the cause of an SLO violation, you will most likely not get enough information from the SLO dashboards. These dashboards show that you are violating the SLO, but not necessarily why. What other data should the monitoring dashboards display?


We’ve found the following guidelines helpful in implementing metrics. These metrics should provide reasonable monitoring that allows you to investigate production issues and also provide a broad range of information about your service.



Intended Changes


When diagnosing an SLO-based alert, you need to be able to move from alerting metrics that notify you of user-impacting issues to metrics that tell you what is causing these issues. Recent intended changes to your service might be at fault. Add monitoring that informs you of any changes in production.4 To determine the trigger, we recommend the following:



 
 Monitor the version of the binary.

 

 
 Monitor the command-line flags, especially when you use these flags to enable and disable features of the service.

 

 
 If configuration data is pushed to your service dynamically, monitor the version of this dynamic configuration.

 



If any of these pieces of the system aren’t versioned, you should be able to monitor the timestamp at which it was last built or packaged.


When you’re trying to correlate an outage with a rollout, it’s much easier to look at a graph/dashboard linked from your alert than to trawl through your CI/CD (continuous integration/continuous delivery) system logs after the fact.





Dependencies


Even if your service didn’t change, any of its dependencies might change or have problems, so you should also monitor responses coming from direct dependencies.


It’s reasonable to export the request and response size in bytes, latency, and response codes for each dependency. When choosing the metrics to graph, keep the four golden signals in mind. You can use additional labels on the metrics to break them down by response code, RPC (remote procedure call) method name, and peer job name.


Ideally, you can instrument the lower-level RPC client library to export these metrics once, instead of asking each RPC client library to export them.5 Instrumenting the client library provides more consistency and allows you to monitor new dependencies for free.


You will sometimes come across dependencies that offer a very narrow API, where all functionality is available via a single RPC called Get, Query, or something equally unhelpful, and the actual command is specified as arguments to this RPC. A single instrumentation point in the client library falls short with this type of dependency: you will observe a high variance in latency and some percentage of errors that may or may not indicate that some part of this opaque API is failing entirely. If this dependency is critical, you have a couple of options to monitor it well:



 
 Export separate metrics to tailor for the dependency, so that the metrics can unpack requests they receive to get at the actual signal.

 

 
 Ask the dependency owners to perform a rewrite to export a broader API that supports separate functionality split across separate RPC services and methods.

 






Saturation


Aim to monitor and track the usage of every resource the service relies upon. Some resources have hard limits you cannot exceed, like RAM, disk, or CPU quota allocated to your application. Other resources—like open file descriptors, active threads in any thread pools, waiting times in queues, or the volume of written logs—may not have a clear hard limit but still require management.


Depending on the programming language in use, you should monitor additional resources:



 
 In Java: The heap and metaspace size, and more specific metrics depending on what type of garbage collection you’re using

 

 
 In Go: The number of goroutines

 



The languages themselves provide varying support to track these resources.


In addition to alerting on significant events as described in Chapter 5 you might also need to set up alerting that fires when you approach exhaustion for specific resources, such as:



 
 When the resource has a hard limit

 

 
 When crossing a usage threshold causes performance degradation

 



You should have monitoring metrics to track all resources—even resources that the service manages well. These metrics are vital in capacity and resource planning.





Status of Served Traffic


It’s a good idea to add metrics or metric labels that allow the dashboards to break down served traffic by status code (unless the metrics your service uses for SLI purposes already include this information). Here are some recommendations:



 
 For HTTP traffic, monitor all response codes, even if they don’t provide enough signal for alerting, because some can be triggered by incorrect client behavior.

 

 
 If you apply rate limits or quota limits to your users, monitor aggregates of how many requests were denied due to lack of quota.

 



Graphs of this data can help you identify when the volume of errors changes noticeably during a production change.


