=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 56/100 ===

 guarantees advertised are appropriate. If the single-region uptime guarantee was less than required by the pipeline to meet its SLO on data processing time, the pipeline owner may choose to replicate the data across regions to get the higher availability.


When a service provider’s infrastructure breaks its SLAs, the result can negatively impact dependent pipelines. If your pipeline depends on more strict guarantees than the service provider advertises, your service could fail even if the service provider remains within their SLA. Sometimes, realistically planning for dependency failure can mean accepting a lower level of reliability and offering a looser SLA to your customers.2


At Google, to encourage pipeline development with dependency failure in mind, we stage planned outages. For example, many pipelines at Google depend on the availability of the datacenter where they run. Our Disaster Recovery Testing (DiRT) frequently targets these systems, simulating a regional outage. When a regional outage occurs, pipelines that have planned for failure automatically fail over to another region. Other pipelines are delayed until the operator of the failed pipeline is alerted by their monitoring and manually fails over. Successful manual failover assumes that the pipeline can obtain enough resources to bring up a production stack in another region. In a best-case scenario, an unsuccessful manual failover prolongs an outage. In a worst-case scenario, processing jobs may have continued processing stale data, which introduces out-of-date or incorrect data in any downstream pipelines. Recovery tactics from an incident like this vary depending on your setup. For example, if correct data was overwritten with incorrect data, you may have to restore data from a previous backup version and reprocess any missing data.


In summary, it’s good practice to prepare for the day when the systems you depend on are unavailable. Even the best products will fail and experience outages. Regularly practice disaster recovery scenarios to ensure your systems are resilient to common and uncommon failures. Assess your dependencies and automate your system responses as much as possible.





Create and Maintain Pipeline Documentation


When well written and maintained, system documentation can help engineers visualize the data pipeline and its dependencies, understand complex system tasks, and potentially shorten downtime in an outage. We recommend three categories of documentation for your pipeline.



System diagrams


System diagrams, similar to Figure 13-2, can help on-call engineers quickly find potential failure points. At Google, we encourage teams to draw system diagrams that show each component (both pipeline applications and data stores), and the transformations that happen at each step. Each of the components and transformations shown in your diagram can get stuck, causing data to stop flowing through the system. Each component can also introduce a software or application configuration bug that impacts data correctness.


A system diagram should contain quick links to other monitoring and debugging information at different pipeline stages. Ideally, these links should pull from live monitoring information, displaying the current status of each stage (e.g., waiting for dependent job to finish/processing/complete). Displaying historical runtime information can also indicate if a pipeline stage is taking longer than expected. This delay can foreshadow performance degradation or an outage.


Finally, even in complex systems, a system diagram makes it easier for developers to analyze data dependencies they should be aware of during feature launches.



Figure 13-2. Pipeline system diagram (PII = personally identifiable information)






Process documentation


It’s important to document how to perform common tasks, such as releasing a new version of a pipeline or introducing a change to the data format. Ideally, you should also document less common (often manual) tasks, such as initial service turnup or final service turndown in a new region. Once your tasks are documented, investigate the possibility of automating away any manual work. If the tasks and system are automated, consider generating your documentation directly from the source so you can keep both in sync.





Playbook entries


Each alert condition in your system should have a corresponding playbook entry that describes the steps to recovery. At Google, we find it useful to link this documentation in any alert messages sent to on-call engineers. Playbook entries are discussed in more detail in Chapter 11 of our first book.







Map Your Development Lifecycle


As shown in Figure 13-3, the development lifecycle of a pipeline (or a change to a pipeline) isn’t too different from the development lifecycle of other systems. This section follows a typical release flow through each stage of the pipeline development lifecycle.



Figure 13-3. Pipeline development lifecycle with release workflow




Prototyping


The first phase of development involves prototyping your pipeline and verifying semantics. Prototyping ensures that you can express the business logic necessary to execute your pipeline. You may discover that one programming language allows you to better express your business logic, or that a particular language more easily integrates with your existing libraries. A particular programming model may suit your specific use case (e.g., Dataflow versus MapReduce, batch versus streaming). For an example of a completed programming model comparison, see our blog post “Dataflow/Beam & Spark: A Programming Model Comparison”. If you are adding a feature to an existing pipeline, we recommend adding your code and running unit tests in the prototype stage.





Testing with a 1% dry run


Once you have completed your prototype, it’s helpful to run a small setup on the full stack using production data. For example, run your pipeline using an experimental set, or a 1% dry run of production data in a nonproduction environment. Gradually scale up, tracking your pipeline performance to ensure you don’t encounter any bottlenecks. When your product has launched to customers, run performance tests. These tests are an integral development step that helps prevent outages caused by new feature rollouts.





Staging


Before deploying to production, it’s useful to run your system in a preproduction (or staging) environment. The data in your staging environment should be as close to actual production data as possible. We recommend keeping a full copy of production data or at least a representative subset. Unit tests won’t catch all pipeline issues, so it’s important to let the data flow through the system end-to-end to catch integration issues.


Integration tests can also identify errors. Using both unit and integration tests, run an A/B comparison of your newly generated data to previously generated known good data. For example, check your previous release for expected or unexpected differences before certifying the release and marking it ready to move to production.





Canarying


Pipeline testing and verification requires more time and care than stateless jobs—the data is persisted and the transformations are often complex. If something goes wrong in your production release, it’s important to catch the issue early so you can limit the impact. Canarying your pipeline can help! Canarying is a process whereby you partially deploy your service (in this case, the pipeline application) and monitor the results. For a more detailed discussion of canarying, see Chapter 16. Canarying is tied to the entire pipeline rather than a single process. During a canary phase, you may choose to process the same real production data as the live pipeline but skip writes to production storage; techniques such as two-phase mutation can help (see the section “Idempotent and Two-Phase Mutations”). Often, you’ll have to wait for the complete cycle of processing to finish before you can discover any customer-impacting issues. After your dry run (or two-phase mutation), compare the results of your canary pipeline with your live pipeline to confirm their health and check for data differences.


Sometimes it is possible to progress through the canary by gradually updating tasks of a job or by updating first in one region and then another, but this is not always possible with pipelines. Pipelines that use replicated data, such as Dataproc3 and Dataflow,4 support regional endpoints5 and prevent this kind of canary progression—you can’t reload one cell in isolation from another. If you run a multihomed pipeline, it may not be possible to deploy to a single region (or a percentage of servers) like you might with a serving job. Instead, perform a rollout for a small percentage of data first, or as described earlier, roll out in dry-run mode first.


During verification of your canary or preproduction environment, it is important to assess the health of your pipeline. Usually, you can use the same metrics you use to track your SLOs. Verifying your canary is a task that lends itself well to automation.





Performing a partial deployment


In addition to canarying your changes, you may also want to perform a partial deployment, particularly if there is a major feature launch or change that could impact system performance and resource usage. It can be difficult to predict the impact of these kinds of launches without first testing your changes on a subset of real traffic. You can implement a partial deployment as a flag or configuration option in your pipeline that accepts an allowed subset of data. Consider first processing your new features on one or two accounts, then gradually ramping up the amount of data (e.g., ~1%, ~10%, ~50%, and finally, 100% of your sample data).


There are a number of ways your partial deployment can go wrong: the input data might be incorrect or delayed, your data processing might have a bug, or your final storage might have an error. Any of these issues can result in an outage. Avoid promoting a corrupt set of data to your low-latency frontends. Aim to catch these types of issues as early as possible, before they reach your users.


