=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 55/100 ===

ogle Analytics. The team set up a job that runs whenever new data is added to these tables. On completion, the job makes an entry in the company’s daily aggregate table.





Machine Learning


Machine learning (ML) applications are used for a variety of purposes, like helping predict cancer, classifying spam, and personalizing product recommendations for users. Typically, an ML system has the following stages:



 
 Data features and their labels are extracted from a larger data set.

 

 
 An ML algorithm trains a model on the extracted features.

 

 
 The model is evaluated on a test set of data.

 

 
 The model is made available (served) to other services.

 

 
 Other systems make decisions using the responses served by the model.

 



To demonstrate an ML pipeline in action, let’s consider an example of a fictional company, Dressy, that sells dresses online. The company wants to increase their revenue by offering targeted recommendations to their users. When a new product is uploaded to the site, Dressy wants their system to start incorporating that product into user recommendations within 12 hours. Ultimately, Dressy would like to present users with near-real-time recommendations as they interact with the site and rate dresses. As a first step in their recommender system, Dressy investigates the following approaches:



 Collaborative
 Show products that are similar to each other.

 Clustering
 Show products that have been liked by a similar user.

 Content-based
 Show products that are similar to other products that the user has viewed or liked.



As an online shop, Dressy has a data set of user profile information and reviews, so they opt to use a clustering filter. New products that are uploaded to their system don’t have structured data or consistent labels (e.g., some vendors may include extra information about color, size, and features of the dress using different categories and formats). Consequently, they need to implement a pipeline to preprocess the data into a format compatible with TensorFlow that joins both the product information and user profile data. The ML system includes pipelines to preprocess data from multiple sources needed to train the model. Using the training data, Dressy’s development team creates a TensorFlow model to serve the appropriate recommendations to customers. Figure 13-1 shows the full ML solution. We detail each step afterward.



Figure 13-1. ML data processing pipeline




 
 The development team elects to use a streaming dataflow pipeline, Google Cloud Dataflow, to preprocess the data into a format of labeled dresses by sending images to an image classification service that returns a list of characteristics.

 

 
 The team preprocesses data from multiple sources that will be used to train a model that returns the top five most similar dresses. Their workflow generates an ML model from the dress product data and purchase history from customer profiles stored in BigQuery.

 

 
 They choose to use a streaming Dataflow pipeline to preprocess the data into a format of customer personalization profiles. These profiles are used as input to train a TensorFlow model. The trained TensorFlow model binary is stored in a Google Cloud Storage (GCS) bucket. Before being promoted to production, the team ensures the model passes accuracy checks when evaluated against a test set of the preprocessed data used for model evaluation.

 

 
 A service provides the recommendations for a given customer, which the web and mobile frontends use. The team uses TensorFlow with the Cloud ML online prediction service.

 

 
 A customer-facing, frontend service for making purchases serves the user data based on the up-to-date dress recommendations from the prediction service.

 



Dressy has noticed that occasionally a new model doesn’t get published for over 24 hours, and the recommendations trigger intermittent errors. This is a common issue when a new model is deployed for the first time; however, there are some simple steps you can take to resolve this problem. If you start to notice that decisions, classifications, or recommendations either aren’t being surfaced or are stale or incorrect, ask yourself:



 
 Is data stuck coming into the pipeline before it can be preprocessed to train the model?

 

 
 Do we have a poor ML model caused by a software bug? Is there a lot of spam? Are the features used to train the model poorly chosen?

 

 
 Has a new version of the ML model been recently generated, or is a stale version of the model running in production?

 



Luckily, Dressy has a set of tools to monitor and detect an issue before their customers experience any problems. If and when an outage occurs, these tools can help them to quickly repair or roll back any offending code. For more details on implementing monitoring and alerting, see Chapter 4.







Pipeline Best Practices


The following pipeline best practices apply to pipelines that are run as a service (i.e., pipelines that are responsible for correctly processing data in a timely manner for consumption by other systems). Multiple steps are required to properly deploy a pipeline as a service. These steps range from defining and measuring your customer needs with an SLO, to gracefully responding to degradations and failures, to writing documentation and creating a development lifecycle that catches issues before they reach production.



Define and Measure Service Level Objectives


It’s important to automatically detect when your pipeline is unhealthy and if you are failing to meet your customer’s needs. Receiving notifications when you’re in danger of exceeding your error budget (for more details on error budget, see Chapter 2) helps to minimize customer impact. At the same time, it’s important to strike a comfortable balance between reliability and feature launches—your customers care about both. The remainder of this section provides examples of pipeline SLOs and how to maintain them.



Data freshness


Most pipeline data freshness SLOs are in one of the following formats:



 
 X% of data processed in Y [seconds, days, minutes].

 

 
 The oldest data is no older than Y [seconds, days, minutes].

 

 
 The pipeline job has completed successfully within Y [seconds, days, minutes].

 



For example, the Shave the Yak mobile game could choose to target an SLO requiring 99% of all user actions that impact the user score to be reflected in the scoreboard within 30 minutes.





Data correctness


Creating SLOs for data correctness ensures that you are alerted about potential data errors in your pipeline. For example, a correctness error in a billing pipeline could result in customers being charged too much or too little. A correctness target can be difficult to measure, especially if there is no predefined correct output. If you don’t have access to such data, you can generate it. For example, use test accounts to calculate the expected output. Once you have this “golden data,” you can compare expected and actual output. From there, you can create monitoring for errors/discrepancies and implement threshold-based alerting as test data flows through a real production system.


Another data correctness SLO involves backward-looking analysis. For example, you might set a target that no more than 0.1% of your invoices are incorrect per quarter. You might set another SLO target for the number of hours/days that bad data or errors are served from the pipeline output data. The notion of data correctness varies by product and application.





Data isolation/load balancing


Sometimes you will have segments of data that are higher in priority or that require more resources to process. If you promise a tighter SLO on high-priority data, it’s important to know that this data will be processed before lower-priority data if your resources become constrained. The implementation of this support varies from pipeline to pipeline, but often manifests as different queues in task-based systems or different jobs. Pipeline workers can be configured to take the highest available priority task. There could be multiple pipeline applications or pipeline worker jobs running with different configurations of resources—such as memory, CPU, or network tiers—and work that fails to succeed on lower provisioned workers could be retried on higher provisioned ones. In times of resource or system constraints, when it’s impossible to process all data quickly, this separation allows you to preferentially process higher-priority items over lower ones.





End-to-end measurement


If your pipeline has a series of stages, it can be tempting to measure a per-stage or per-component SLO. However, measuring SLOs in this fashion doesn’t capture your customer’s experience or the end-to-end health of your system. For example, imagine you have an event-based pipeline such as Google Analytics. The end-to-end SLO includes log input collection and any number of pipeline steps that happen before data reaches the serving state. You could monitor each stage individually and offer an SLO on each one, but customers only care about the SLO for the sum of all stages. If you’re measuring SLOs for each stage, you would be forced to tighten your per-component alerting, which could result in more alerts that don’t model the user experience.


Additionally, if you measure data correctness only per stage, you could miss end-to-end data corruption bugs. For example, each stage in your pipeline could report that all is well, but one stage introduces a field that it expects a downstream job to process. This upstream stage assumes that the extra data has been processed and used to serve requests to users. A downstream job doesn’t expect the additional field, so it drops the data. Both jobs think they are correct, but the user doesn’t see the data.







Plan for Dependency Failure


Once you define your SLO, it’s good practice to confirm that you aren’t overdepending on the SLOs/SLAs of other products that fail to meet their commitments. Many products, such as Google Cloud Platform, list their SLA promises on their sites. Once you identify any third-party dependencies, at a minimum, design for the largest failure accounted for in their advertised SLAs. For example, when defining an SLO, the owner of a pipeline that reads or writes data to Cloud Storage would ensure that the uptimes and