=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 15/100 ===




Latency


We let each service define its SLO for latency and determine where to best measure it. Our only request was that a service should supplement our common white-box performance monitoring with black-box monitoring to catch issues caused by the network or other layers like caches and proxies that fail outside the microservice. We also decided that percentiles were more appropriate than arithmetic averages. At minimum, services needed to hit a 90th percentile target; user-facing services had a preferred target of 95th and/or 99th percentile.





Errors


Errors were somewhat complicated to account for. Since we were primarily dealing with web services, we had to standardize what constitutes an error and how to return errors. If a web service encountered an error, we naturally standardized on HTTP response  codes:



 
 A service should not indicate an error in the body of a 2xx response; rather, it should throw either a 4xx or a 5xx.

 

 
 An error caused by a problem with the service (for example, out of memory) should throw a 5xx error.

 

 
 An error caused by the client (for example, sending a malformed request) should throw a 4xx error.

 



After much deliberation, we decided to track both 4xx and 5xx errors, but used 5xx errors only to set SLOs. Similar to our approach for other SLO-related elements, we kept this dimension generic so that different applications could leverage it for different contexts. For example, in addition to HTTP errors, errors for a batch processing service might be the number of records that failed to process.





Tickets


As previously mentioned, tickets were originally the primary way we evaluated most of our production software. For historical reasons, we decided to continue to track tickets alongside our other SLOs. You can consider this metric as analogous to something like “software operation level.”





VALET


We summed up our new SLOs into a handy acronym: VALET.



 Volume (traffic)
 How much business volume can my service handle?

 Availability
 Is the service up when I need it?

 Latency
 Does the service respond fast when I use it?

 Errors
 Does the service throw an error when I use it?

 Tickets
 Does the service require manual intervention to complete my request?








Evangelizing SLOs


Armed with an easy-to-remember acronym, we set out to evangelize SLOs to the enterprise:



 
 Why SLOs are important

 

 
 How SLOs support our “freedom and responsibility” culture

 

 
 What should be measured

 

 
 What to do with the results

 



Since developers were now responsible for the operation of their software, they needed to establish SLOs to demonstrate their ability to build and support reliable software, and also to communicate with the consumers of their services and product managers for customer-facing services. However, most of this audience was unfamiliar with concepts like SLAs and SLOs, so they needed to be educated on this new VALET framework.


As we needed to secure executive backing for our move to SLOs, our education campaign started with senior leadership. We then met with development teams one by one to espouse the values of SLOs. We encouraged teams to move from their custom metric-tracking mechanisms (which were often manual) to the VALET framework. To keep the momentum going, we sent a weekly SLO report in VALET format, which we paired with commentary around general reliability concepts and lessons learned from internal events, to senior leadership. This also helped frame business metrics like purchase orders created (Volume) or purchase orders that failed to process (Errors) in terms of VALET.


We also scaled our evangelism in a number of ways:



 
 We set up an internal WordPress site to host blogs about VALET and reliability, outlinking to useful resources.

 

 
 We conducted internal Tech Talks (including a Google SRE guest speaker) to discuss general reliability concepts and how to measure with VALET.

 

 
 We conducted a series of VALET training workshops (which would later evolve into FiRE Academy), and opened the invite to whomever wanted to attend. The attendance for these workshops stayed strong for several months.

 

 
 We even created VALET laptop stickers and t-shirts to support a comprehensive internal marketing campaign.

 



Soon everybody in the company knew VALET, and our new culture of SLOs began to take hold. SLO implementation even began to officially factor into THD’s annual performance reviews for development managers. While roughly 50 services were regularly capturing and reporting on their SLOs on a weekly basis, we were storing the metrics ad hoc in a spreadsheet. Although the idea of VALET had caught on like wildfire, we needed to automate data collection to foster widespread adoption. 





Automating VALET Data Collection


While our culture of SLOs now had a strong foothold, automating VALET data collection would accelerate SLO adoption.



TPS Reports


We built a framework to automatically capture VALET data for any service that was deployed to our new GCP environment. We called this framework TPS Reports, a play on the term we used for volume and performance testing (transactions per second), and, of course, to poke fun3 at the idea that multiple managers might want to review this data. We built the TPS Reports framework on top of GCP’s BigQuery database platform. All of the logs generated by our web-serving frontend were fed into BigQuery for processing by TPS Reports. We eventually also included metrics from a variety of other monitoring systems such as Stackdriver’s probe for availability.


TPS Reports transformed this data into hourly VALET metrics that anyone could query. Newly created services were automatically registered into TPS Reports and therefore could be immediately queried. Since the data was all stored in BigQuery, we could efficiently report on VALET metrics across time frames. We used this data to build a variety of automated reports and alerts. The most interesting integration was a chatbot that let us directly report on the VALET of services in a commercial chat platform. For example, any service could display VALET for the last hour, VALET versus previous week, services out of SLO, and a variety of other interesting data right inside the chat channel.





VALET service


Our next step was to create a VALET application to store and report on SLO data. Because SLOs are best leveraged as a trending tool, the service tracks SLOs at daily, weekly, and monthly granularity. Note that our SLOs are a trending tool that we can use for error budgets, but aren’t directly connected to our monitoring systems. Instead, we have a variety of disparate monitoring platforms, each with its own alerting. Those monitoring systems aggregate their SLOs on a daily basis and publish to the VALET service for trending. The downside of this setup is that alerting thresholds set in the monitoring systems aren’t integrated with SLOs; however, we have the flexibility to change out monitoring systems as needed.


Anticipating the need to integrate VALET with other applications not running in GCP, we created a VALET integration layer that provides an API to collect aggregated VALET data for a service daily. TPS Reports was the first system to integrate with the VALET service, and we eventually integrated with a variety of on-premises application platforms (more than half of the services registered in VALET).





VALET Dashboard


The VALET Dashboard (shown in Figure 3-1) is our UI to visualize and report on this data and is relatively straightforward. It allows users to:



 
 Register a new service. This typically means assigning the service to one or more URLs, which may already have VALET data collected.

 

 
 Set SLO objectives for any of the five VALET categories.

 

 
 Add new metrics types under each of the VALET categories. For example, one service may track latency at the 99th percentile, while another tracks latency at the 90th percentile (or both). Or, a backend processing system may track volume at a daily level (purchase orders created in a day), whereas a customer-serving frontend may track peak transactions per second.

 



The VALET Dashboard lets users report on SLOs for many services at once, and to slice and dice the data in a variety of ways. For example, a team can view stats for all of their services that missed SLO in the past week. A team seeking to review service performance can view latency across all of their services and the services they depend upon. The VALET Dashboard stores the data in a simple Cloud SQL database, and developers use a popular commercial reporting tool to build reports.


These reports became the foundation for a new best practice with developers: regular SLO reviews of their services (typically, either weekly or monthly). Based upon these reviews, developers can create action items to return a service to its SLO, or perhaps decide that an unrealistic SLO needs to be adjusted.



Figure 3-1. The VALET Dashboard








The Proliferation of SLOs


Once SLOs were firmly cemented in the organization’s collective mind and effective automation and reporting were in place, new SLOs proliferated quickly. After tracking SLOs for about 50 services at the beginning of the year, by the end of the year we were tracking SLOs for 800 services, with about 50 new services per month being registered with VALET.


Because VALET allowed us to scale SLO adoption across THD, the time effort required to develop automation was well worth it. However, other companies shouldn’t be scared away from adopting an SLO-based approach if they can’t develop similarly complex automation. While automation provided THD extra benefits, there are benefits to just writing SLOs in the first place.





Applying VALET to Batch Applications


As we developed robust reporting around SLOs, we discovered some additional uses for VALET. With a little adjusting, batch applications can fit into this framework as follows:



 Volume
 The volume of records processed

 Availability
 How often (as a percentage) the job completed by a certain time

 Latency
 The amount of time it takes for the job to run

 Errors
 The records that failed to process

 Tickets
 The number of times an operator has to manually fix data and reprocess a job



