=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 2/100 ===

funded rollercoaster rides as a developer—searching Google for answers daily the whole time. I was working on Puppet full-time and I was fascinated by the potential for automation to transform IT organizations. Puppet thrust me into solving problems in the operations domain. At this time, Google used Puppet to manage their corporate Linux and OS X workstations at a scale that pushed the capabilities of the Puppet server. We had a great working relationship with Google, but Google kept certain details of their internal operations secret as a matter of policy. I know this because I’m naturally curious and was constantly seeking more information. I always knew Google must have great internal tools and processes, but what these tools and processes were wasn’t always apparent. Eventually, I accepted that asking deep questions about Borg probably meant the current conversation wasn’t going very far. I would have loved to know more about how Google did everything, but this simply wasn’t allowed at the time. The significance of 2008 also includes the first O’Reilly Velocity conference and the year I met Patrick Debois. “DevOps” wasn’t a thing yet, but it was about to be. The time was right. The world was ready. DevOps symbolized a new way, a better way. If Site Reliability Engineering had been published then, I believe the community that formed would have rallied to fly the “eliminate toil” flag and the term DevOps might have never existed. Counterfactuals notwithstanding, I know the first SRE book personally advanced my understanding of the possible, and I already helped many others just with the SRE principles.

In the early days of the DevOps movement, we consciously avoided codifying practices because everything was evolving so rapidly and we didn’t want to set limits on what DevOps could become. Plus, we explicitly didn’t want anyone to “own” DevOps. When I wrote about DevOps in 2010, I made three distinct points. First, developers and operations can and should work together. Second, system administration will become more and more like software development. Finally, sharing with a global community of practice accelerates and multiplies our collective capabilities. Around the same time, my friends Damon Edward and John Willis coined the acronym CAMS for Culture, Automation, Metrics, and Sharing. Jez Humble later expanded this acronym to CALMS by adding Lean continuous improvement. What each of these words might mean in context deserves to be a full book, but I mention them here because Site Reliability Engineering explicitly references Culture, Automation, Metrics, and Sharing alongside anecdotes about Google’s journey to continuously improve. By publishing the first SRE book, Google shared their principles and practices with the global community. Now I define DevOps simply as “optimizing human performance and experience operating software, with software, and with humans.” I don’t want to put words in anyone’s mouth, but that seems like a great way to describe SRE as well.

Ultimately, I know DevOps when I see it and I see SRE at Google, in theory and practice, as one of the most advanced implementations. Good IT operations has always depended on good engineering, and solving operations problems with software has always been central to DevOps. Site Reliability Engineering makes the engineering aspect even more explicit. I cringe when I hear someone say “SRE versus DevOps.” For me, they are inseparable in time and space, as labels describing the sociotechnical systems that deliver modern infrastructure with software. I consider DevOps a loose generic set of principles and SRE an advanced explicit implementation. A parallel analogy would be the relationship between Agile and Extreme Programming (XP). True, XP is Agile, arguably the best of Agile, but not all organizations are capable of or willing to adopt XP.

Some say “software is eating the world,” and I understand why they do, but “software” alone is not the right framing. Without the ubiquity of computational hardware connected with high-speed networks, much of what we take for granted as “software” would not be possible. This is an undeniable truth. What I think many miss in this conversation about technology are the humans. Technology exists because of humans and hopefully for humans, but if you look a little deeper, you also realize that the software we rely on, and probably take for granted, is largely dependent on humans. We rely on software, but software also relies on us. This is a single interconnected system of imperfect hardware—software and humans relying on themselves to build the future. Reliability is eating the world. Reliability is not just about technology, though, but also about people. The people and the technology form a single technosocial system. One nice feature about having Google share SRE with the rest of the industry is that any excuses about what kind of processes work at scale became invalid. Google set the highest standard for both reliability and scale. There might be valid arguments about why someone can’t adopt Google SRE practices directly, but the guiding principles should still apply. As I look at the landscape of possibilities to build the future and the ambition to transform human experience with software, I see a lot of ambitious projects to quite literally connect everything to the internet. My math says that the successful projects will find themselves ingesting and indexing incredible amounts of data. Few, if any, will surpass the scale of Google today, but some will be the same size Google was when they started SRE and will need to solve the same reliability problems. I contend that in these cases, adopting tools and process that look suspiciously like SRE is not optional but existential—though there is no need to wait for that crisis because SRE principles and practices apply at any scale.

SRE is usually framed as how Google does operations, but that misses the bigger picture: SRE in practice enables software engineering, but also transforms architecture, security, governance, and compliance. When we leverage the SRE focus on providing a platform of services, all these other considerations get to have first-class emphasis, but where and how that happens may be quite different. Just like SRE (and hopefully DevOps) shifted more and more of the burden to software engineering, modern architecture and security practices evolve from slides, checklists, and hope to enabling the right behaviors with running code. Organizations adopting SRE principles and practices without revisiting these other aspects lose a huge opportunity to improve, and will also probably meet with internal resistance if the people who consider themselves responsible for those aspects are not converted into allies.

I always enjoy learning. I read every word of the first SRE book straight through. I loved the language. I loved the anecdotes. I loved understanding more about how Google sees itself. But the question for me is always, “What behavior will I change?” Learning isn’t collecting information. Learning is changing behavior. This is easy to determine or even quantify in certain disciplines. You have learned to play a new song when you can play the song. You are better at chess when you win games against stronger players. Site Reliability Engineering, like DevOps, should not just be changing titles, but making definitive behavior changes, focusing on outcomes and obviously reliability. The Site Reliability Workbook promises to move forward from an enumeration of principles and practices by Google for Google toward more contextual actions and behaviors. Site reliability is for everyone, but reliability doesn’t come from reading books. Here’s to embracing risk and eliminating toil.

Preface

Preface

When we wrote the original Site Reliability Engineering book, we had a goal: explain the philosophy and the principles of production engineering and operations at Google. The book was our attempt to share our teams’ best practices and lessons with the rest of the computing world. We assumed that the SRE book might appeal to a modest number of engineers working in large, reliability-conscious endeavors, and that both the quantity and the focus of the content would tend to limit the book’s appeal.

As it turned out, we were happily mistaken on both counts.

To our surprise and delight, the SRE book was a best-seller in computing for an exhilarating period after its release, and it was not just being sold or downloaded; it was being read. We received questions from around the world about the book, the team, the practices, and the outcomes. We were asked to speak about chapters, approaches, and incidents. We found ourselves in the unexpected position of having to turn down outside requests because we were out of cycles.

Like most success disasters, the SRE book created an opportunity to respond with human effort (“Hire more people! Do more speaking engagements!”) or with something more scalable. And being SREs, it will surprise few readers that we gravitated toward the latter approach. We decided to write a second SRE book—one that expanded on the content we were most frequently being asked to speak about, and that addressed the most common questions readers had about the first book.

Out of the many different questions, requests, and comments we received about the first SRE book, two themes were particularly interesting to us; if left unaddressed, they were barriers to putting SRE’s lessons to productive use. These themes are colloquially summarized as:


Principles are interesting, but how do I turn them into practice in my project/team/company?


SRE’s approach would not work for me; it is feasible only in Google’s culture, and makes sense only at Google’s scale.



The purpose of this second SRE book is (a) to add more implementation detail to the principles outlined in the first volume, and (b) to dispel the idea that SRE is implementable only at “Google scale” or in “Google culture.”

This volume is a companion to the previous work—not a new version. The two books should be taken together as a pair. You will get the most from this book if you’re already familiar with its predecessor. The first SRE book is available online for free.

By design, the structure of this book roughly follows the structure of the first volume. We want you to be able to read the chapters in tandem. Each chapter in this volume assumes you’re familiar with its counterpart from the previo