=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 28/100 ===

ogle, go on a temporary leave, or have data under a litigation hold. Figure 6-9 provides a sample design doc state diagram illustrating this complexity.



Figure 6-9. Business logic based upon user scenarios



The technology powering the portal was relatively simple. Written in Python with the Flask framework, it read and wrote to a Bigtable, and used a number of background jobs and schedulers to manage its work.





Archiving and migration automation


We needed a lot of ancillary tooling to glue the portal and configuration management together, and to query and communicate with users. We also needed to be sure we identified the right users for the right communications. False positives (erroneously reporting action required) or false negatives (failing to notify a user that you were taking something away) were both unacceptable, and errors here would mean extra work in the form of lost credibility and customer service.


We worked with alternative storage system owners to add features to their roadmaps. As a result, less mature alternatives became more suitable for filer use cases as the project progressed. We could also use and extend tooling from other teams. For example, we used another team’s internally developed tool to migrate data from Google Cloud Storage to Google Drive as part of the Portal’s auto-archiving functionality.


The effort required substantial software development over the life of the project. We built and iterated upon each component—the Moonwalk reporting pipeline, the portal, and the automation to better manage retiring and archiving shares—in response to the next phase’s requirements and user feedback. We approached a feature-complete state only in phase three (almost two years in); and even then, we needed additional tooling to handle a “long tail” of around 800 users. This low and slow approach had definite benefits. It allowed us to:



 
 Maintain a lean team (averaging three CDS team members)

 

 
 Reduce the disruption to user workflows

 

 
 Limit toil for Techstop (Google’s internal technical support organization)

 

 
 Build tools on an as-needed basis to avoid wasted engineering effort

 



As with all engineering decisions, there were tradeoffs: the project would be long-lived, so the team had to endure filer-related operational toil while engineering these solutions.


The program officially completed in 2016. We’ve reduced home directories from 65,000 to around 50 at the time of writing. (The current Azog Project aims to retire these last users and fully decommission the filer hardware.) Our users’ experience has improved, and CDS has retired operationally expensive hardware and processes.







Lessons Learned


While no one alternative could replace the filer-backed storage that Googlers had used for 14+ years, we didn’t necessarily need a wholesale replacement. By effectively moving up the stack from a generalized but limited filesystem-level solution to multiple application-specific solutions, we traded flexibility for improved scalability, latency tolerance, and security. The Moira team had to anticipate a variety of user journeys and consider alternatives in various stages of maturity. We had to manage expectations around these alternatives: in aggregate, they could provide a better user experience, but getting there wouldn’t be painless. We learned the following lessons about effectively reducing toil along the way.



Challenge assumptions and retire expensive business processes


Business requirements drift and new solutions continuously emerge, so it’s worthwhile to periodically question toil-intensive business processes. As we discussed in “Toil Management Strategies”, rejecting toil (deciding not to perform toilsome tasks) is often the simplest way to eliminate it, even though this approach isn’t always quick or easy. Shore up your case with user analytics and business justifications beyond mere toil reduction. The primary business justification for filer decommissioning came down to the benefits of a Beyond Corp security model. So, while Moira was a great way to reduce the CDS team’s toil, emphasizing the many security benefits of decommissioning filers made for a more compelling business case.





Build self-service interfaces


We built a custom portal for Moira (which was relatively expensive), but there are often easier alternatives. Many teams at Google manage and configure their services using version control, and process organizational requests in the form of pull requests (called changelists, or CLs). This approach requires little or no involvement from the service’s team, but gives us the benefits of code review and continuous deployment processes to validate, test, and deploy internal service configuration changes.





Start with human-backed interfaces


At several points, the Moira team used an “engineer behind the curtain” approach that married automation with manual work by engineers. For example, share requests opened tracking bugs, which our automation updated as we processed the requests. The system also assigned end users bugs to remind them to address their shares. Tickets can serve as a quick and dirty GUI for automation: they keep a log of work, update stakeholders, and provide a simple human fallback mechanism if automation goes awry. In our case, if a user needed help with their migration or if automation couldn’t process their request, the bug was automatically routed to a queue that SREs handled manually.





Melt snowflakes


Automation craves conformity. Moira’s engineers chose to retool our automation to either handle share edge cases specifically, or to delete/modify nonconforming shares to match expectations of tooling. This allowed us to approach zero-touch automation for much of the migration processes.


Note
Fun Fact: At Google, this practice of changing reality to fit the code rather than the other way around is called “buying the gnome.” This phrase references a legend about Froogle, a shopping search engine from the very early days of the company.


Early in Froogle’s life, a serious search quality bug caused a search for [running shoes] to return a garden gnome (wearing running shoes) as a high-ranking result. After several unsuccessful attempts to fix the bug, someone noticed that the gnome was not a mass-produced item, but a single eBay listing with a Buy It Now option. They purchased the gnome (Figure 6-10).





Figure 6-10. The garden gnome that wouldn’t go away






Employ organizational nudges


Look for ways to nudge new users to adopt better (and hopefully less toil-intensive) alternatives. In this vein, Moira required escalations for new share or quota requests and recognized users who retired their shares. It’s also important to provide good documentation around service setup, best practices, and when to use your service. Google teams frequently employ codelabs or cookbooks that teach users how to set up and use their service for common use cases. As a result, most user onboarding doesn’t require help from the team that owns the service.









Conclusion


At minimum, the amount of toil associated with running a production service grows linearly with its complexity and scale. Automation is often the gold standard of toil elimination, and can be combined with a number of other tactics. Even when toil isn’t worth the effort of full automation, you can decrease engineering and operations workloads through strategies like partial automation or changing business processes.


The patterns and methods for eliminating toil described in this chapter can be generalized to work for a variety of other large-scale production services. Eliminating toil frees up engineering time to focus on the more enduring aspects of services, and allows teams to keep manual tasks at a minimum as the complexity and scale of modern service architectures continue to increase.


It’s important to note that eliminating toil isn’t always the best solution. As mentioned throughout this chapter, you should consider the measurable costs associated with identifying, designing, and implementing processes or automation solutions around toil. Once you identify toil, it’s crucial to determine when toil reduction makes sense, using metrics, return on investment (ROI) analysis, risk assessment, and iterative development.


Toil usually starts small, and can rapidly grow to consume an entire team. SRE teams must be relentless in eliminating toil, because even if the task seems daunting, the benefits usually exceed the costs. Each of the projects we described required perseverance and dedication from its respective teams, who sometimes battled skepticism or institutional resistance, and who always faced competing high priorities. We hope these stories encourage you to identify your toil, quantify it, and then work toward eliminating it. Even if you can’t invest in a big project today, you can start with a small proof of concept that can help change your team’s willingness to deal with toil.



1 Whether something is automatable is the most subjective characteristic listed here; your perspective will evolve as you gain experience by automating away toil. A problem space that once seemed intractable (or too risky) will become feasible once you get comfortable with “letting the robots do the work.”
2 Some engineers do not mind working on toil for a prolonged period—not everyone’s tolerance threshold for toil is the same. Over the longer term, toil causes career stagnation while promoting burnout-induced turnover. A certain level of toil is unavoidable, but we recommend reducing it where feasible—for the health of the team, the service, and individuals alike.
3 In other words, if a service and its nine dependencies each have 99.99% availability, the aggregate availability of the service will be 0.999910 = 99.9%. For further reading on how dependencies factor into service availability, see “The Calculus of Service Availability”.
4 Of course, you won’t be able to handle some one-off cases via self-service (“you want a VM with how much RAM?”), but aim to cover the majority of use cases. Moving 80–90% of requests to self-service is still a huge reduction in workload!
5 In short, moving away from individual specialized devices toward a fleet of devices with a common interface. See “Case Study 1: Reducing Toil in the Datacenter with Automation” for a detailed explanation of this analo