=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 69/100 ===




Middle of the Road: Evaluate at Build Time


You can avoid checking JSON into source control by running the Jsonnet command-line utility at build time and embedding the generated JSON into the release artifact (e.g., as a tarball). The application code simply reads the JSON file from disk at initialization time. If you’re using Bazel, you can easily achieve this using the Jsonnet Bazel rules. At Google, we commonly favor this approach because of the pros listed next.



Pros



 
 You have the ability to control runtime complexity, binary size, and risk exposure without having to rebuild the JSON files in each pull request.

 

 
 There’s no risk of desynchronization between originating Jsonnet code and resulting JSON.

 






Cons



 
 The build is more complex.

 

 
 It’s harder to evaluate the concrete change during code review.

 








Late: Evaluate at Runtime


Linking the Jsonnet library allows the application itself to interpret the config at any time, yielding an in-memory representation of the generated JSON config.



Pros



 
 It’s simpler, as you don’t need a prior evaluation.

 

 
 You gain the ability to evaluate Jsonnet code provided by the user during execution.

 






Cons



 
 Any linked library increases the footprint and risk exposure.

 

 
 Configuration bugs may be discovered at runtime, which is too late.

 

 
 If the Jsonnet code is untrusted, you must take special care. (We discuss why in “Guarding Against Abusive Configuration”.)

 



To follow our running example, when should you run Jsonnet if you’re generating Kubernetes objects?


The answer depends on your implementation. If you’re building something like ksonnet (a client-side command-line tool that runs Jsonnet code from the local filesystem), the easiest solution is to link the Jsonnet library into the tool and evaluate the Jsonnet in process. Doing so is safe because code runs on the author’s own machine.


Box.com’s infrastructure uses Git hooks to push configuration changes to production. To avoid executing Jsonnet on the server, the Git hooks act on generated JSON that’s kept in the repository. For a deployment management daemon like Helm or Spinnaker, your only choice is to evaluate the Jsonnet on the server at runtime (with the caveats described in the next section).









Guarding Against Abusive Configuration


Unlike long-running services, configuration execution should quickly terminate with the resulting config. Unfortunately, due to bugs or deliberate attacks, configuration may take an arbitrary amount of CPU time or memory. To illustrate why, consider the following nonterminating Jsonnet program:



local f(x) = f(x + 1); f(0)


A program that uses unbounded memory is similar:



local f(x) = f(x + [1]); f([])


You can write equivalent examples using objects instead of functions, or in other configuration languages.


You might try to avoid overconsuming resources by restricting the language so that it is no longer Turing complete. However, enforcing that all configurations terminate doesn’t necessarily prevent overconsuming resources. It’s easy to write a program that consumes enough time or memory to be practically nonterminating. For example:



local f(x) = if x == 0 then [] else [f(x - 1), f(x - 1)]; f(100)


In fact, such programs exist even with simple config formats like XML and YAML.


In practice, the risk of these scenarios depends on the situation. On the less problematic side, suppose a command-line tool uses Jsonnet to build Kubernetes objects and then deploys those objects. In this case, the Jsonnet code is trusted: accidents that produce nontermination are rare, and you can use Ctrl-C to mitigate them. Accidental memory exhaustion is extremely unlikely. At the other extreme, with a service like Helm or Spinnaker, which accepts arbitrary config code from an end user and evaluates it in a request handler, you must be very careful to avoid DOS attacks that might tie up request handlers or exhaust memory.


If you evaluate untrusted Jsonnet code in a request handler, you can avoid such attacks by sandboxing the Jsonnet execution. One easy strategy is to use a separate process and ulimit (or its non-UNIX equivalent). Typically, you need to fork to the command-line executable instead of linking the Jsonnet library. As a result, programs that do not complete within given resources fail safely and inform the end user. For additional defense against C++ memory exploits, you can use the native Go implementation of Jsonnet.





Conclusion


Whether you use Jsonnet, adopt another configuration language, or develop your own, we hope that you can apply these best practices to manage the complexity and operational load required to configure your production system with confidence.


At a minimum, the critical properties of a configuration language are good tooling, hermetic configurations, and separation of configuration and data.


Your system may not be complex enough to need a configuration language. Transitioning to a domain-specific language like Jsonnet is a strategy to consider when your complexity increases. Doing so will allow you to provide a consistent and well-structured interface, and will free up your SRE team’s time to work on other important projects.



1 Note that you may be able to write software to convert your old configuration language to the new language; however, if your original source language is nonstandard or broken, this isn’t a viable option.
2 While fields from computational biology to video games use Jsonnet, the most enthusiastic adopters are from the Kubernetes community. Box.com uses Jsonnet to describe the workloads that run on their Kubernetes-based internal infrastructure platform. Databricks and Bitnami also use the language extensively.
3 A YAML stream is a file that contains many YAML documents separated by "---".
4 YAML Specification §6.9.2.
5 In the YAML specification, objects are known as documents.

Canarying Releases

Chapter 16. Canarying Releases


By Alec Warner and Štěpán Davidovič

with Alex Hidalgo, Betsy Beyer, Kyle Smith, and Matt Duftler


Release engineering is a term we use to describe all the processes and artifacts related to getting code from a repository into a running production system. Automating releases can help avoid many of the traditional pitfalls associated with release engineering: the toil of repetitive and manual tasks, the inconsistency of a nonautomated process, the inability of knowing the exact state of a rollout, and the difficulty of rolling back. The automation of release engineering has been well covered in other literature—for example, books on continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD).1


We define canarying as a partial and time-limited deployment of a change in a service and its evaluation. This evaluation helps us decide whether or not to proceed with the rollout. The part of the service that receives the change is “the canary,” and the remainder of the service is “the control.” The logic underpinning this approach is that usually the canary deployment is performed on a much smaller subset of production, or affects a much smaller subset of the user base than the control portion. Canarying is effectively an A/B testing process.


We’ll first cover the basics of release engineering and the benefits of automating releases to establish a shared vocabulary.



Release Engineering Principles


The basic principles of release engineering are as follows:



 Reproducible builds
 
 The build system should be able to take the build inputs (source code, assets, and so on) and produce repeatable artifacts. The code built from the same inputs last week should produce the same output this week.

 
 Automated builds
 
 Once code is checked in, automation should produce build artifacts and upload them to a storage system.

 
 Automated tests
 
 Once the automated build system builds artifacts, a test suite of some kind should ensure they function.

 
 Automated deployments
 
 Deployments should be performed by computers, not humans.

 
 Small deployments
 
 Build artifacts should contain small, self-contained changes.

 


These principles provide specific benefits to operators:



 
 Reducing operational load on engineers by removing manual and repetitive tasks.

 

 
 Enforcing peer review and version control, since automation is generally code-based.

 

 
 Establishing consistent, repeatable, automated processes, resulting in fewer mistakes.

 

 
 Enabling monitoring of the release pipeline, allowing for measurement and continuous improvement by addressing questions like:


 
 
 How long does it take a release to reach production?

 

 
 How often are releases successful? A successful release is a release made available to customers with no severe defects or SLO violations.

 

 
 What changes can be made to catch defects as early in the pipeline as possible?

 

 
 Which steps can be parallelized or further optimized?

 

 
 



CI/CD coupled with release automation can deliver continuous improvements to the development cycle, as shown in Figure 16-1. When releases are automated, you can release more often. For software with a nontrivial rate of change, releasing more often means fewer changes are bundled in any given release artifact. Smaller, self-contained release artifacts make it cheaper and easier to roll back any given release artifact in the event of a bug. Quicker release cadences mean that bug fixes reach users faster.



Figure 16-1. The virtuous cycle of CI/CD






Balancing Release Velocity and Reliability


Release velocity (hereafter called “shipping”) and reliability are often treated as opposing goals. The business wants to ship new features and product improvements as quickly as possible with 100% reliability! While that goal is not achievable (as 100% is never the right target for reliability; see Chapter 2), it is possible to ship as quickly as possible while meeting specific reliability goals for a given product.


The first step toward this goal is understanding the impact of shipping on software reliability. In Google’s experience, a majority of incidents are triggered by binary or configuration pushes (see Appendix C). Many kinds of software changes can result in a system failure—for example, changes in the behav