=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 30/100 ===




Lessons learned


When considering a rewrite, think about the full project lifecycle, including development toward a moving target, a full migration plan, and extra costs you might incur during the migration time window. Wide APIs with lots of users are very hard to migrate. Don’t compare the expected result to your current system. Instead, compare the expected result to what your current system would look like if you invested the same effort in improving it. Sometimes a rewrite is the best way forward, but make sure you’ve weighed the costs and benefits and that you don’t underestimate the costs.









Regaining Simplicity


Most simplification work consists of removing elements from a system. Sometimes simplification is direct (e.g., removing a dependency on an unused piece of data fetched from a remote system). Other times, simplification requires redesign. For example, two parts of a system might need access to the same remote data. Rather than fetch it twice, a simpler system might fetch the data once and forward the result.


Whatever the work, leadership must ensure that simplification efforts are celebrated and explicitly prioritized. Simplification is efficiency—instead of saving compute or network resources, it saves engineering time and cognitive load. Treat successful simplification projects just as you treat useful feature launches, and measure and celebrate code addition and removal equally.4 For example, Google’s intranet displays a “Zombie Code Slayer” badge for engineers that delete significant amounts of code.


Simplification is a feature. You need to prioritize and staff simplification projects and reserve time for SREs to work on them. If product developers and SREs do not see simplification projects as beneficial to their careers, they won’t undertake these projects. Consider making simplicity an explicit goal for particularly complex systems or overloaded teams. Create a separate bucket of time to do this work. For example, reserve 10% of engineering project time for “simplicity” projects.5


Note
Reader action: Have engineers brainstorm known complexities in the system and discuss ideas to reduce them.




As a system grows in complexity, there is a temptation to split SRE teams, focusing each new team on smaller parts of the system. While this is sometimes necessary, the reduced scope of the new teams might lessen their motivation or ability to drive larger simplification projects. Consider designating a small rotating group of SREs who maintain working knowledge of the entire stack (likely with less depth), and can push for conformity and simplification across it.


As previously mentioned, the act of diagramming your system can help you identify deeper design problems that hinder your ability to understand the system and predict its behavior. For example, when diagramming your system, you might look for the following:



 Amplification
 When a call returns an error or times out and is retried on several levels, it causes the total number of RPCs to multiply.

 Cyclic dependencies
 When a component depends on itself (often indirectly), system integrity can be gravely compromised—in particular, a cold start of the whole system might become impossible.




Case Study 3: Simplification of the Display Ads Spiderweb



Background


Google’s Display Ads business has many related products, including some that originated from acquisitions (DoubleClick, AdMob, Invite Media, etc.). These products had to be adapted to work with Google infrastructure and existing products. For example, we wanted a website using DoubleClick for Publishers to be able to show ads chosen by Google’s AdSense; similarly, we wanted bidders using DoubleClick Bid Manager to have access to the real-time auctions run on Google’s Ad Exchange.


These independently developed products formed a system of interconnected backends that was difficult to reason about. Observing what happened to traffic as it passed through components was difficult, and provisioning the right amount of capacity for each piece was inconvenient and imprecise. At one point, we added tests to make sure we had removed all infinite loops in the query flow.





What we decided to do


Ads serving SREs were the natural drivers for standardization: while each component had a specific developer team, SREs were on-call for the entire stack. One of our first undertakings was to draft uniformity standards and work with developer teams to incrementally adopt them. These standards:



 
 Established a single way to copy large data sets

 

 
 Established a single way to perform external data lookups

 

 
 Provided common templates for monitoring, provisioning, and configuration

 



Before this initiative, separate programs provided frontend and auction functionality for each product. As shown in Figure 7-1, when an ad request might hit two targeting systems, we rewrote the request to meet the expectations of the second system. This required additional code and processing, and it also opened the possibility of undesirable loops.



Figure 7-1. Previously, an ad request might hit both the AdMob and AdSense systems



To simplify the system, we added logic to common programs that satisfied all of our use cases, along with flags to guard the programs. Over time, we removed the flags and consolidated the functionality into fewer server backends.


Once the servers were unified, the auction server could talk to both targeting servers directly. As shown in Figure 7-2, when multiple targeting servers needed data lookups, the lookup needed to happen only once in the unified auction server.



Figure 7-2. The unified auction server now performs a data lookup only once






Lessons learned


It’s best to integrate an already running system into your own infrastructure incrementally.


Just as the presence of very similar functions in a single program represents a “code smell” that indicates deeper design problems, redundant lookups in a single request represent a “system smell.”


When you create well-defined standards with buy-in from SRE and developers, you can provide a clear blueprint for removing complexity that managers are more likely to endorse and reward.







Case Study 4: Running Hundreds of Microservices on a Shared Platform


by Mike Curtis



Background


Over the past 15 years, Google has developed multiple successful product verticals (Search, Ads, and Gmail, to name a few) and produced a steady stream of new and refactored systems. Many of these systems have a dedicated SRE team and a corresponding domain-specific production stack that includes a bespoke development workflow, continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) software cycles, and monitoring. These unique production stacks incur significant overhead in terms of maintenance, development costs, and independent SRE engagement. They also make it harder to move services (or engineers!) between teams, or to add new services.





What we decided to do


A set of SRE teams in the social networking space worked to converge the production stacks for their services into a single managed microservices platform, managed by a single group of SREs. The shared platform is compliant with best practices, and it bundles and automatically configures many previously underused features that improve reliability and facilitate debugging. Regardless of their SRE engagement level, new services within the scope of the SRE team were required to use the common platform, and legacy services had to either migrate to the new platform or be phased out.


After its success in the social network space, the shared platform is gaining adoption with other SRE and non-SRE teams across Google.





Design


We used microservices so we could quickly update and deploy features—a single monolithic service changes slowly. Services are managed, not hosted: rather than removing control and responsibility from individual teams, we empower them to manage their services effectively themselves. We provide workflow tools that service teams can use to release, monitor, and more.


The tools we provide include a UI, API, and a command-line interface that SREs and developers use to interact with their stack. The tools make the developer experience feel unified, even when it involves many underlying systems.





Outcomes


The platform’s high quality and feature set had an unexpected benefit: developer teams can run hundreds of services without any deep SRE engagement.


The common platform also changed the SRE-developer relationship. As a result, tiered SRE engagement is becoming common at Google. Tiered engagement includes a spectrum of SRE involvement, ranging from light consulting and design reviews to deep engagement (i.e., SREs share on-call duties).





Lessons learned


Shifting from sparse or ill-defined standards to a highly standardized platform is a long-term investment. Each step might feel incremental, but ultimately, these steps reduce overhead and make running services at scale possible.


It’s important that developers see the value in such a transition. Aim for incremental productivity wins that are unlocked at each stage of development. Don’t try to convince people to perform a huge refactor that pays off only at the very end.







Case Study 5: pDNS No Longer Depends on Itself



Background


When a client in Google production wants to look up the IP address for a service, it often uses a lookup service called Svelte. In the past, to find the IP address for Svelte, the client used a Google naming service called pDNS (Production DNS). The pDNS service is accessed through a load balancer, which looks up the IP addresses for the actual pDNS servers…using Svelte.





Problem statement


pDNS had a transitive dependency on itself, which was unintentionally introduced at some point and only later identified as a reliability concern. Lookups normally didn’t run into issues because the pDNS service is replicated, and the data needed to break out of the dependency loop was always available somewhere in Google production. However, a cold start would have been impossible. In the words of one SRE, “We were like cave dwellers who could only light fires by running with a torch lit from the last campfire.”


