=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 39/100 ===

for Google Assistant on a given device.


A bug in Google Assistant version 1.88 caused speaker recognition files to be fetched 50 times more often than expected, exceeding this quota. Initially, Google Home users in the central United States experienced only small traffic losses. As the rollout increased progressively to all Google Home devices, however, users lost half of their requests during the weekend of June 3, 2017.





Incident


At 11:48 a.m. PST on Monday, May 22, Jasper, the developer on-call for Google Home, happened to be looking at the queries per second (QPS) graphs and noticed something strange: Google Assistant had been pinging training data every 30 minutes, instead of once per day as expected. He stopped the release of version 1.88, which had rolled out to 25% of users. He raised a bug—let’s call it bug 12345—with Google’s bug tracking system to explore why this was happening. On the bug, he noted that Google Assistant was pinging data 48 times a day, causing it to exceed its QPS capacity.


Another developer, Melinda, linked the issue to a previously reported bug, which we’ll call bug 67890: any time an app refreshed the device authentication and enrollment state, the speech processor restarted. This bug was slated to be fixed after the version 1.88 release, so the team requested a temporary increase in quota for the model to mitigate the overload from extra queries.


The version 1.88 release was started again and continued to roll out, reaching 50% of users by Wednesday, May 31. Unfortunately, the team later learned that bug 67890, while responsible for some extra traffic, was not the actual root cause of the more frequent fetches that Jasper had noticed.


That same morning, customers started reporting an issue to Google’s support team: any time someone said “OK Google” (or any other hotword to activate Google Home), the device responded with an error message. This issue prevented users from giving commands to Google Assistant. The team began to investigate what could be causing the errors that users reported. They suspected quota issues, so they requested another increase to the quota, which seemed to mitigate the problem.


Meanwhile, the team continued to investigate bug 12345 to see what was triggering the errors. Although the quota connection was established early in the debugging process, miscommunication between the client and server developers had led developers down the wrong path during troubleshooting, and the full solution remained out of reach.


The team also puzzled over why Google Assistant’s traffic kept hitting quota limits. The client and server developers were confused by client-side errors that didn’t seem to be triggered by any problems on the server side. The developers added logging to the next release to help the team understand the errors better, and hopefully make progress in resolving the incident.


By Thursday, June 1, users reported that the issue had been resolved. No new issues were reported, so the version 1.88 release continued to roll out. However, the root cause of the original issue had not yet been identified.


By early Saturday morning, June 3, the version 1.88 release rollout surpassed 50%. The rollout was happening on a weekend, when developers were not readily available. The team had not followed the best practice of performing rollouts only during business days to ensure developers are around in case something goes wrong.


When the version 1.88 release rollout reached 100% on Saturday, June 3, the client once more hit server limits for Google Assistant traffic. New reports from customers started coming in. Google employees reported that their Google Home devices were throwing errors. The Google Home support team received numerous customer phone calls, tweets, and Reddit posts about the issue, and Google Home’s help forum displayed a growing thread discussing the issue. Despite all the user reports and feedback, the bug wasn’t escalated to a higher priority.


On Sunday, June 4, as the number of customer reports continued to increase, the support team finally raised the bug priority to the highest level. The team did not declare an incident, but continued to troubleshoot the issue via “normal” methods, using the bug tracking system for communication. The on-call developer noticed error rates in one of the datacenter clusters and pinged SRE, asking them to drain it. At the same time, the team submitted another request for a quota increase. Afterward, an engineer on the developer team noticed the drain had pushed errors into other cells, which provided additional evidence of quota issues. At 3:33 p.m., the developer team manager increased the quota for Google Assistant once again, and the impact on users stopped. The incident was over. The team identified the root cause (see the previous “Context” section) shortly thereafter.





Review


Some aspects of incident handling went really well, while others had room for improvement.


First, the developers rallied on the weekend and provided valuable input to resolve the issue. This was both good and bad. While the team valued the time and effort these individuals contributed over the weekend, successful incident management shouldn’t rely on heroic efforts of individuals. What if the developers had been unreachable? At the end of the day, Google supports a good work-life balance—engineers shouldn’t be tapped during their free time to fix work-related problems. Instead, we should have conducted rollouts during business hours or organized an on-call rotation that provided paid coverage outside of business hours.


Next, the team worked to mitigate the issue. Google always aims to first stop the impact of an incident, and then find the root cause (unless the root cause just happens to be identified early on). Once the issue is mitigated, it’s just as important to understand the root cause in order to prevent the issue from happening again. In this case, mitigation successfully stopped the impact on three separate occasions, but the team could only prevent the issue from recurring when they discovered the root cause. After the first mitigation, it would have been better to postpone the rollout until the root cause was fully determined, avoiding the major disruption that happened over the weekend.


Finally, the team did not declare an incident when problems first appeared.  Our experience shows that managed incidents are resolved faster. Declaring an incident early ensures that:



 
 Miscommunication between the client and server developers is prevented.

 

 
 Root-cause identification and incident resolution occur sooner.

 

 
 Relevant teams are looped in earlier, making external communications faster and smoother.

 



Centralized communication is an important principle of the IMAG protocol. For example, when disaster strikes, SREs typically gather in a “war room.” The war room can be a physical location like a conference room, or it can be virtual: teams might gather on an IRC channel or Hangout. The key here is to gather all the incident responders in one place and to communicate in real time to manage—and ultimately resolve—an incident.







Case Study 2: Service Fault—Cache Me If You Can


The following incident illustrates what happens when a team of experts tries to debug a system with so many interactions that no single person can grasp all the details. Sound familiar?



Context


Kubernetes is an open source container management system built collaboratively by many companies and individual contributors.  Google Kubernetes Engine, or GKE, is a Google-managed system that creates, hosts, and runs Kubernetes clusters for users. This hosted version operates the control plane, while users upload and manage workloads in the way that suits them best.


When a user first creates a new cluster, GKE fetches and initializes the Docker images their cluster requires. Ideally, these components are fetched and built internally so we can validate them. But because Kubernetes is an open source system, new dependencies sometimes slip in through the cracks.





Incident


One Thursday at 6:41 a.m. PST, London’s on-call SRE for GKE, Zara, was paged for CreateCluster prober failures across several zones. No new clusters were being successfully created. Zara checked the prober dashboard and saw that failures were above 60% for two zones. She verified this issue was affecting user attempts to create new clusters, though traffic to existing clusters was not affected. Zara followed GKE’s documented procedure and declared an incident at 7:06 a.m.


Initially, four people were involved in the incident:



 
 Zara, who first noticed the problem, and was therefore the designated default Incident Commander

 

 
 Two of Zara’s teammates

 

 
 Rohit, the customer support engineer paged by the incident procedure

 



Since Rohit was based in Zurich, Zara (the IC) opened a GKE Panic IRC channel where the team could debug together. While the other two SREs dug into monitoring and error messages, Zara explained the outage and its impact to Rohit. By 7:24 a.m., Rohit posted a notice to users that CreateCluster was failing in the Europe-West region. This was turning into a large incident.


Between 7 a.m. and 8:20 a.m., Zara, Rohit, and the others worked on troubleshooting the issue. They examined cluster startup logs, which revealed an error:



error: failed to run Kubelet: cannot create certificate signing request: Post
https://192.0.2.53/apis/certificates.k8s.io/v1beta1/certificatesigningrequests


They needed to determine which part of the certificate creation failed. The SREs investigated the network, resource availability, and the certificate signing process. All seemed to work fine separately. At 8:22 a.m., Zara posted a summary of the investigation to the incident management system, and looked for a developer who could help her.


Thankfully, GKE had a developer on-call who could be paged for emergencies. The developer, Victoria, joined the channel. She asked for a tracking bug and requested that the team escalate the issue to the infrastructure on-call team.


It was now 8:45 a.m. The first Seattle SRE, Il-Seong, arrived at the office, lightly caffeinated and ready for the day. Il-Seong was a senior SRE with many years of experience in incident response. When he was informed about the ongoing incident, he jumped in to help. First, Il-Seo