=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 23/100 ===

ome of the case studies in this chapter), during which time team priorities and personnel can change. To maintain focus and justify cost over the long term, you need an objective measure of progress. Usually, teams must choose a toil-reduction project from several candidates. An objective measure of toil allows your team to evaluate the severity of the problems and prioritize them to achieve maximum return on engineering investment.


Before beginning toil reduction projects, it’s important to analyze cost versus benefit and to confirm that the time saved through eliminating toil will (at minimum) be proportional to the time invested in first developing and then maintaining an automated solution (Figure 6-1). Projects that look “unprofitable” from a simplistic comparison of hours saved versus hours invested might still be well worth undertaking because of the many indirect or intangible benefits of automation. Potential benefits could include:



 
 Growth in engineering project work over time, some of which will further reduce toil

 

 
 Increased team morale and decreased team attrition and burnout

 

 
 Less context switching for interrupts, which raises team productivity

 

 
 Increased process clarity and standardization

 

 
 Enhanced technical skills and career growth for team members

 

 
 Reduced training time

 

 
 Fewer outages attributable to human errors

 

 
 Improved security

 

 
 Shorter response times for user requests

 




Figure 6-1. Estimate the amount of time you’ll spend on toil reduction efforts, and make sure that the benefits outweigh the cost (source: xkcd.com/1319/)



So how do we recommend you measure toil?



 
 Identify it. Chapter 5 of the first SRE book offers guidelines for identifying the toil in your operations. The people best positioned to identify toil depend upon your organization. Ideally, they will be stakeholders, including those who will perform the actual work.

 

 
 Select an appropriate unit of measure that expresses the amount of human effort applied to this toil. Minutes and hours are a natural choice because they are objective and universally understood. Be sure to account for the cost of context switching. For efforts that are distributed or fragmented, a different well-understood bucket of human effort may be more appropriate. Some examples of units of measure include an applied patch, a completed ticket, a manual production change, a predictable email exchange, or a hardware operation. As long as the unit is objective, consistent, and well understood, it can serve as a measurement of toil.

 

 
 Track these measurements continuously before, during, and after toil reduction efforts. Streamline the measurement process using tools or scripts so that collecting these measurements doesn’t create additional toil!

 






Toil Taxonomy


Toil, like a crumbling bridge or a leaky dam, hides in the banal day to day. The categories in this section aren’t exhaustive, but represent some common categories of toil. Many of these categories seem like “normal” engineering work, and they are. It’s helpful to think of toil as a spectrum rather than a binary classification.



Business Processes


This is probably the most common source of toil. Maybe your team manages some computing resource—compute, storage, network, load balancers, databases, and so on—along with the hardware that supplies that resource. You deal with onboarding users, configuring and securing their machines, performing software updates, and adding and removing servers to moderate capacity. You also work to minimize cost or waste of that resource. Your team is the human interface to the machine, typically interacting with internal customers who file tickets for their needs. Your organization may even have multiple ticketing systems and work intake systems.


Ticket toil is a bit insidious because ticket-driven business processes usually accomplish their goal. Users get what they want, and because the toil is typically dispersed evenly across the team, the toil doesn’t loudly and obviously call for remediation. Wherever a ticket-driven process exists, there’s a chance that toil is quietly accumulating nearby. Even if you’re not explicitly planning to automate a process, you can still perform process improvement work such as simplification and streamlining—the processes will be easier to automate later, and easier to manage in the meantime.





Production Interrupts


Interrupts are a general class of time-sensitive janitorial tasks that keep systems running. For example, you may need to fix an acute shortage of some resource (disk, memory, I/O) by manually freeing up disk space or restarting applications that are leaking memory. You may be filing requests to replace hard drives, “kicking” unresponsive systems, or manually tweaking capacity to meet current or expected loads. Generally, interrupts take attention away from more important work.





Release Shepherding


In many organizations, deployment tools automatically shepherd releases from development to production. Even with automation, thorough code coverage, code reviews, and numerous forms of automated testing, this process doesn’t always go smoothly. Depending on the tooling and release cadence, release requests, rollbacks, emergency patches, and repetitive or manual configuration changes, releases may still generate toil.





Migrations


You may find yourself frequently migrating from one technology to another. You perform this work manually or with limited scripting because, hopefully, you’re only going to move from X to Y once. Migrations come in many forms, but some examples include changes of data stores, cloud vendors, source code control systems, application libraries, and tooling.


If you approach a large-scale migration manually, the migration quite likely involves toil. You may be inclined to execute the migration manually because it’s a one-time effort. While you might even be tempted to view it as “project work” rather than “toil,” migration work can also meet many of the criteria of toil. Technically, modifying backup tooling for one database to work with another is software development, but this work is basically just refactoring code to replace one interface with another. This work is repetitive, and to a large extent, the business value of the backup tooling is the same as before.





Cost Engineering and Capacity Planning


Whether you own hardware or use an infrastructure provider (cloud), cost engineering and capacity planning usually entail some associated toil. For example:



 
 Ensuring a cost-effective baseline or burstable capability for future needs across resources like compute, memory, or IOPS (input/output operations per second). This may translate into purchase orders, AWS Reserved Instances, or Cloud/Infrastructure as a Service contract negotiation.

 

 
 Preparing for (and recovering from) critical high-traffic events like a product launch or holiday.

 

 
 Reviewing downstream and upstream service levels/limits.

 

 
 Optimizing workload against different footprint configurations. (Do you want to buy one big box, or four smaller boxes?)

 

 
 Optimizing applications against the billing specifics of proprietary cloud service offerings (DynamoDB for AWS or Cloud Datastore for GCP).

 

 
 Refactoring tooling to make better use of cheaper “spot” or “preemptable” resources.

 

 
 Dealing with oversubscribed resources, either upstream with your infrastructure provider or with your downstream customers.

 






Troubleshooting for Opaque Architectures


Distributed microservice architectures are now common, and as systems become more distributed, new failure modes arise. An organization may not have the resources to build sophisticated distributed tracing, high-fidelity monitoring, or detailed dashboards. Even if the business does have these tools, they might not work with all systems. Troubleshooting may even require logging in to individual systems and writing ad hoc log analytics queries with scripting tools.


Troubleshooting itself isn’t inherently bad, but you should aim to focus your energy on novel failure modes—not the same type of failure every week caused by brittle system architecture. With each new critical upstream dependency of availability P, availability decreases by 1 – P due to the combined chance of failure. A four 9s service that adds nine critical four 9s dependencies is now a three 9s service.3







Toil Management Strategies


We’ve found that performing toil management is critical if you’re operating a production system of any scale. Once you identify and quantify toil, you need a plan for eliminating it. These efforts may take weeks or quarters to accomplish, so it’s important to have a solid overarching strategy.


Eliminating toil at its source is the optimal solution, but if doing so isn’t possible, then you must handle the toil by other means. Before we dive into the specifics of two in-depth case studies, this section provides some general strategies to consider when you’re planning a toil reduction effort. As you’ll observe across the two stories, the nuances of toil vary from team to team (and from company to company), but regardless of specificity, some common tactics ring true for organizations of any size or flavor. Each of the following patterns is illustrated in a concrete way in at least one of the subsequent case studies.



Identify and Measure Toil


We recommend that you adopt a data-driven approach to identify and compare sources of toil, make objective remedial decisions, and quantify the time saved (return on investment) by toil reduction projects. If your team is experiencing toil overload, treat toil reduction as its own project. Google SRE teams often track toil in bugs and rank toil according to the cost to fix it and the time saved by doing so. See the section “Measuring Toil” for techniques and guidance.


