=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 60/100 ===




Case Study: Spotify


by Igor Maravić


Spotify is the leading music streaming company in the world. Every day, tens of millions of people use Spotify to listen to their favorite songs, share music with their friends, and discover new artists.


This case study describes our event delivery system, which is responsible for reliably collecting instrumentation data generated from Spotify applications. The data produced by this system helps us to better understand our end users and to provide them with the right music at the right time.


Note
In this case study, a “customer” refers to the development teams within Spotify that use data from the event delivery system. “End user” refers to individuals that use the Spotify service to listen to music.





Event Delivery


We refer to end-user interactions as events. Every time a user listens to a song, clicks an ad, or follows a playlist, we record an event. Spotify captures and publishes hundreds of billions of events (of multiple types) to our servers daily. These events have many uses at Spotify, from A/B test analysis to showing play counts to powering personalized discovery playlists. Most importantly, we pay royalties to artists based on delivered events.6 It’s imperative that we have a reliable means of event storage and delivery.


Before we can process event data, that data needs to be collected and delivered to persistent storage. We use an event delivery system to reliably collect and persist all published events. The event delivery system is one of the core pillars of our data infrastructure, as almost all of our data processing depends—either directly or indirectly—on the data it delivers.


All delivered events are partitioned by type and publishing time. As shown in Figure 13-5, events published during any given hour are grouped together and stored in a designated directory, called a delivered hourly bucket. These buckets are then grouped into event-type directories. This partitioning scheme simplifies data access control, ownership, retention, and consumption at Spotify.



Figure 13-5. Delivered hourly buckets



Hourly buckets are the only interface our data jobs have with the event delivery system. As a result, we measure performance and define SLOs for our event delivery system based on how well we deliver hourly buckets per event type.







Event Delivery System Design and Architecture


Our hourly buckets reside on Google Cloud Storage (GCS). Early in the design process, we decided to decouple data collection from data delivery within the system. To achieve this, we used a globally distributed persistent queue, Google Cloud Pub/Sub, as an intermediate layer. Once decoupled, data collection and delivery act as independent failure domains, which limits the impact of any production issues and results in a more resilient system. Figure 13-6 depicts the architecture of our event delivery system.



Figure 13-6. Event delivery system architecture




Data collection


Produced events7 are grouped by event types. Each event type describes a user action in the Spotify application. For example, one event type could refer to a user subscribing to a playlist, while another event type could refer to a user starting playback of a song. To ensure that separate event types don’t impact each other, the system has full event type isolation. Individual events from different event types are published to their allocated topics in Google Cloud Pub/Sub. Publishing is performed by our microservices, which run both in Spotify datacenters and on Google Compute Engine (GCE). In order to be delivered, each published event stream is handled by a dedicated instance of an ETL process.





Extract Transform Load


The ETL process is responsible for delivering published events to the correct hourly buckets on GCS. The ETL process has three steps/components:



 
 A dedicated microservice consumes events from the event stream.

 

 
 Another microservice assigns events to their hourly partitions.

 

 
 A batch data job running on Dataproc deduplicates events from their hourly partitions and persists them to their final location on GCS.

 



Each ETL component has a single responsibility, which makes the components easier to develop, test, and operate.





Data delivery


Event type delivery is dynamically enabled or disabled directly by our customers (other engineering teams at Spotify). Delivery is controlled via simple configuration. In the configuration, customers define which event types should be delivered. As delivery of each event type is turned on or off, a microservice dynamically acquires and releases the Google GCE resources on which the ETL runs. The following code shows an example event type that a customer can enable/disable:



events:
 -CollectionUpdate
 -AddedToCollection
 -RemovedFromCollection


When a customer enables delivery of a new event type, we don’t know in advance what quantity of resources are required to guarantee the delivery. Consequently, manually determining necessary resources is very expensive. To achieve optimal resource utilization for delivery of different event types, we use GCE Autoscaler.







Event Delivery System Operation


Defining and communicating SLOs for our event delivery system helps in three ways:



 Design and development
 When developing our systems, having clear SLOs in place gives us goals to work toward. These goals help us make pragmatic design choices and optimize our systems for simplicity.

 Identify performance issues
 Once our systems are deployed in production, SLOs help us to identify which parts of the system aren’t performing well and where we need to focus our efforts.

 Set customer expectations
 SLOs allow us to manage our customer expectations and avoid unnecessary support requests. When the limits of our system are clear to our customers, they are empowered to decide how to design, build, and operate their own systems that depend on our data.



We provide our customers with three SLO types for our event delivery system: timeliness, completeness, and skewness (discussed next). These SLOs are based on hourly data buckets provided by GCS. To be as objective as possible and to avoid bloating event delivery with features that have nothing to do with it, we measure all SLOs using independent external systems (e.g., Datamon, a data visualization tool explained in the next section).



Timeliness


Our timeliness SLO is defined as the maximum delay of delivering an hourly bucket of data. Delivery delay is calculated as the time difference between when the bucket was delivered and the earliest theoretical time the bucket could have been closed. Figure 13-7 provides an example of this delivery delay. The diagram shows the buckets for hours 12, 13, and 14. If the bucket for hour 13 was closed at 14:53, we would say the closing delay was 53 minutes.



Figure 13-7. Event time partitioning



Timeliness of data delivery is the metric we use to evaluate the performance of our data pipelines. To measure and visualize timeliness, we use a tool called Datamon, our internal data monitoring tool that was built around the notion of hourly buckets. Figure 13-8 shows a typical Datamon UI. Each green rectangle (in grayscale, the vast majority of the rectangles) represents an on-time hourly bucket. Gray rectangles (clustered here on the righthand side) indicate buckets that have not been delivered, while red rectangles (3 dark rectangles on the very top row) indicate buckets that weren’t delivered within the required SLO. Days when all hours were successfully delivered are shown as a single green rectangle.



Figure 13-8. Datamon for Spotify’s data monitoring system



Downstream data jobs can’t start their processing until the hourly buckets on which they depend are delivered. Each data job periodically checks the delivery status of its dependencies before processing the data. Any delay in delivery affects the timeliness of downstream jobs. Our customers care deeply about having data delivered in a timely fashion. To help us prioritize delivery of events during an incident, our event delivery system’s timeliness SLO is split into three priority tiers: high, normal, and low. Our customers configure to the appropriate tier for their event type.





Skewness


We define our skewness SLO as the maximal percentage of data that can be misplaced on a daily basis. Skewness (and completeness) are concepts specific to our event delivery system and are not present in our other data pipelines. Defining an SLO for these concepts was a key requirement when we were designing our event delivery system, as it processes (among other event types) finance-bearing events. For all other events, best-effort delivery is good enough and we don’t expose a corresponding SLO. Whether or not an event is finance-bearing is determined by customer configuration.


To determine when an hourly bucket should be delivered, our event delivery system uses heuristics. By definition, heuristics aren’t always completely correct. As a result, undelivered events from previously delivered buckets might be delivered to an incorrect future hourly bucket. This misplaced event is referred to as a skew. A skew can negatively impact jobs, since they might first underreport and then overreport values for some time periods. Figure 13-9 shows an example of skewed data delivery.



Figure 13-9. Delivery of skewed data






Completeness


Events can be lost in a distributed system in many ways—for example, a new release of our software may contain a bug, a cloud service may go down, or a developer might accidentally delete some persisted events. To ensure we are alerted about data loss, we measure completeness. We define completeness as the percentage of events that are delivered after they are successfully published to the system.


We report on skewness and completeness daily. To measure these values, we use an internal auditing system that compares the counts for all published and delivered events. Any mismatch is reported, and we take appropriate action.


In order to have timeliness, skewness, and completeness SLO guarantees, we assign events to our hourly buckets at the time they were received at our servers, not when they were produced on the clients. If our users are in offline mode, produced events can be buffered for up to 30 days on the clients befor