=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 92/100 ===




SLIs and SLOs



 
 
 Category
 SLI
 SLO
 

 
 
 
 API
 

 
 Availability
 
 The proportion of successful requests, as measured from the load balancer metrics.


 Any HTTP status other than 500–599 is considered successful.


 
count of "api" http_requests which
do not have a 5XX status code
divided by
count of all "api" http_requests

 
 97% success
 

 
 Latency
 
 The proportion of sufficiently fast requests, as measured from the load balancer metrics.


 “Sufficiently fast” is defined as < 400 ms, or < 850 ms.


 
count of "api" http_requests with
a duration less than or equal to
"0.4" seconds
divided by
count of all "api" http_requests

count of "api" http_requests with
a duration less than or equal to
"0.85" seconds
divided by
count of all "api" http_requests

 
 
 90% of requests < 400 ms


 99% of requests < 850 ms

 
 

 
 HTTP server
 

 
 Availability
 
 The proportion of successful requests, as measured from the load balancer metrics.


 Any HTTP status other than 500–599 is considered successful.


 
count of "web" http_requests which
do not have a 5XX status code
divided by
count of all "web" http_requests

 
 99%
 

 
 Latency
 
 The proportion of sufficiently fast requests, as measured from the load balancer metrics.


 “Sufficiently fast” is defined as < 200 ms, or < 1,000 ms.


 
count of "web" http_requests with
a duration less than or equal to
"0.2" seconds
divided by
count of all "web" http_requests

count of "web" http_requests with
a duration less than or equal to
"1.0" seconds
divided by
count of all "web" http_requests

 
 
 90% of requests < 200 ms


 99% of requests < 1,000 ms

 
 

 
 Score pipeline
 

 
 Freshness
 
 The proportion of records read from the league table that were updated recently.


 “Recently” is defined as within 1 minute, or within 10 minutes.


 Uses metrics from the API and HTTP server:


 
count of all data_requests for
"api" and "web" with freshness
less than or equal to 1 minute
divided by
count of all data_requests

count of all data_requests for
"api" and "web" with freshness
less than or equal to 10 minutes
divided by
count of all data_requests

 
 
 90% of reads use data written within the previous 1 minute.


 99% of reads use data written within the previous 10 minutes.

 
 

 
 Correctness
 
 The proportion of records injected into the state table by a correctness prober that result in the correct data being read from the league table.


 A correctness prober injects synthetic data, with known correct outcomes, and exports a success metric:


 
count of all data_requests which
were correct
divided by
count of all data_requests

 
 99.99999% of records injected by the prober result in the correct output.
 

 
 Completeness
 
 The proportion of hours in which 100% of the games in the data store were processed (no records were skipped).


 Uses metrics exported by the score pipeline:


 
count of all pipeline runs that
processed 100% of the records
divided by
count of all pipeline runs

 
 99% of pipeline runs cover 100% of the data.
 

 





Rationale


Availability and latency SLIs were based on measurement over the period 2018-01-01 to 2018-01-28. Availability SLOs were rounded down to the nearest 1% and latency SLO timings were rounded up to the nearest 50 ms. All other numbers were picked by the author and the services were verified to be running at or above those levels.


No attempt has yet been made to verify that these numbers correlate strongly with user experience.1





Error Budget


Each objective has a separate error budget, defined as 100% minus (–) the goal for that objective. For example, if there have been 1,000,000 requests to the API server in the previous four weeks, the API availability error budget is 3% (100% – 97%) of 1,000,000: 30,000 errors.


We will enact the error budget policy (see Appendix B) when any of our objectives has exhausted its error budget.





Clarifications and Caveats



 
 Request metrics are measured at the load balancer. This measurement may fail to accurately measure cases where user requests didn’t reach the load balancer.

 

 
 We only count HTTP 5XX status messages as error codes; everything else is counted as success.

 

 
 The test data used by the correctness prober contains approximately 200 tests, which are injected every 1s. Our error budget is 48 errors every four weeks.

 




1 Even if the numbers in the SLO are not strongly evidence-based, it is necessary to document this so that future readers can understand this fact, and make their decisions appropriately. They may decide that it is worth the investment to collect more evidence.

Example Error Budget Policy

Appendix B. Example Error Budget Policy



 
 
 Status
 Published
 

 
 
 
 Author
 Steven Thurgood
 

 
 Date
 2018-02-19
 

 
 Reviewers
 David Ferguson
 

 
 Approvers
 Betsy Beyer
 

 
 Approval date
 2018-02-20
 

 
 Revisit date
 2019-02-01
 

 



Service Overview


The Example Game Service allows Android and iPhone users to play a game with each other. New releases of the backend code are pushed daily. New releases of clients are pushed weekly. This policy applies both to backend and client releases.





Goals


The goals of this policy are to:



 
 Protect customers from repeated SLO misses

 

 
 Provide an incentive to balance reliability with other features

 






Non-Goals


This policy is not intended to serve as a punishment for missing SLOs. Halting change is undesirable; this policy gives teams permission to focus exclusively on reliability when data indicates that reliability is more important than other product features.





SLO Miss Policy


If the service is performing at or above its SLO, then releases (including data changes) will proceed according to the release policy.


If the service has exceeded its error budget for the preceding four-week window, we will halt all changes and releases other than P01 issues or security fixes until the service is back within its SLO.


Depending upon the cause of the SLO miss, the team may devote additional resources to working on reliability instead of feature work.


The team must work on reliability if:



 
 A code bug or procedural error caused the service itself to exceed the error budget.

 

 
 A postmortem reveals an opportunity to soften a hard dependency.

 

 
 Miscategorized errors fail to consume budget that would have caused the service to miss its SLO.

 



The team may continue to work on non-reliability features if:



 
 The outage was caused by a company-wide networking problem.

 

 
 The outage was caused by a service maintained by another team, who have themselves frozen releases to address their reliability issues.

 

 
 The error budget was consumed by users out of scope for the SLO (e.g., load tests or penetration testers).

 

 
 Miscategorized errors consume budget even though no users were impacted.

 






Outage Policy


If a single incident consumes more than 20% of error budget over four weeks, then the team must conduct a postmortem. The postmortem must contain at least one P0 action item to address the root cause.


If a single class of outage consumes more than 20% of error budget over a quarter, the team must have a P0 item on their quarterly planning document2 to address the issues in the following quarter.





Escalation Policy


In the event of a disagreement between parties regarding the calculation of the error budget or the specific actions it defines, the issue should be escalated to the CTO to make a decision.





Background


Note

 This section is boilerplate, intended to give a succinct overview of error budgets to those unfamiliar with them.

 



Error budgets are the tool SRE uses to balance service reliability with the pace of innovation. Changes are a major source of instability, representing roughly 70% of our outages, and development work for features competes with development work for stability. The error budget forms a control mechanism for diverting attention to stability as needed.


An error budget is 1 minus the SLO of the service. A 99.9% SLO service has a 0.1% error budget.


If our service receives 1,000,000 requests in four weeks, a 99.9% availability SLO gives us a budget of 1,000 errors over that period.



1 P0 is the highest priority of bug: all hands on deck; drop everything else until this is fixed.
2 At Google, quarterly planning is public, and teams are held accountable to their plans.

Results of Postmortem Analysis

Appendix C. Results of Postmortem Analysis


At Google, we have a standard postmortem template that allows us to consistently capture the incident root cause and trigger, which enables trend analysis. We use this trend analysis to help us target improvements that address systemic root-cause types, such as faulty software interface design or immature change deployment planning. Table C-1 shows the breakdown of our top eight triggers for outages, based on a sample of thousands of postmortems over the last seven years.



 Table C-1. Top eight outage triggers, 2010–2017
 
 
 Binary push
 37%
 

 
 Configuration push
 31%
 

 
 User behavior change
 9%
 

 
 Processing pipeline
 6%
 

 
 Service provider change
 5%
 

 
 Performance decay
 5%
 

 
 Capacity management
 5%
 

 
 Hardware
 2%
 

 


Table C-2 presents the top five contributing root-cause categories.



 Table C-2. Top five root-cause categories for outages
 
 
 Software
 41.35%
 

 
 Development process failure
 20.23%
 

 
 Complex system behaviors
 16.90%
 

 
 Deployment planning
 6.74%
 

 
 Network failure
 2.75%

Index
Index
A
abandoned phase (service lifecycle), SRE engagement in, Phase 6: Abandoned
Abuse SRE and Common Abuse Tool (CAT) teams, Ares case study, Case Study 1: Ares-Case Study 1: Ares
access control policies for data processing pipelines, Adhere to Access Control and Security Policies
accidents, view in DevOps, Accidents Are Normal
ACM Queue article on Canary Analysis service, Conclusion
action items in postmortems, Key action item characteristics missinggamification of postmortem action items, Gamification
in good postmo