=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 72/100 ===




Before/After Evaluation Is Risky


A before/after canary process is an extension of the attribution problem. In this process, the old system is fully replaced by the new system, and your canary evaluation compares system behavior before and after the change over a set period of time. One might call this process a “canary deployment in time-space,” where you choose the A/B groups by segmenting time instead of segmenting the population by machines, cookies, or other means. Because time is one of the biggest sources of change in observed metrics, it is difficult to assess degradation of performance with before/after evaluation.


While the canary deployment might have caused the degradation, the degradation may very well have happened in the control system too. This scenario becomes even more problematic if we attempt to run a canary deployment over a longer period of time. For example, if we perform a release on Monday, we may be comparing behavior during a business day to behavior during a weekend, introducing a large amount of noise. In this example, users may use the service very differently over the weekend, thereby introducing noise in the canary process.


The before/after process itself introduces a question of whether a big error spike (as introduced by a before/after evaluation) is better than a small but possibly longer rate of errors (as introduced by a small canary). If the new release is completely broken, how quickly can we detect and revert? A before/after canary may detect the problem faster, but the overall time to recovery may still be quite substantial and similar to a smaller canary. During that time, users suffer.





Use a Gradual Canary for Better Metric Selection


Metrics that don’t meet our ideal properties may still bring great value. We can introduce these metrics by using a more nuanced canary process.


Instead of simply evaluating a single canary stage, we can use a canary containing multiple stages that reflect our ability to reason about the metrics. In the first stage, we have no confidence or knowledge about the behavior of this release. We therefore want to use a small stage in order to minimize negative impact. In a small canary, we prefer metrics that are the clearest indication of a problem—application crashes, request failures, and the like. Once this stage passes successfully, the next stage will have a larger canary population to increase confidence in our analysis of the impact of the changes.







Dependencies and Isolation


The system being tested will not operate in a complete vacuum. For practical reasons, the canary population and the control may share backends, frontends, networks, data stores, and other infrastructure. There may even be extremely nonobvious interactions with the client. For example, imagine two consecutive requests sent by a single client. The first request may be handled by the canary deployment. The response by the canary may change the content of the second request, which may land on the control, altering the control’s behavior.


Imperfect isolation has several consequences. Most importantly, we need to be aware that if the canarying process provides results that indicate we should stop a production change and investigate the situation, the canary deployment isn’t necessarily at fault. This fact is true of canarying in general, but in practice, it’s frequently enforced by isolation issues.


Additionally, imperfect isolation means that bad behavior of the canary deployment can also negatively impact the control. Canarying is an A/B comparison, and it’s possible that both A and B can change in tandem; this may cause confusion in the canary evaluation. It is important to also use absolute measures, such as defined SLOs, to ensure the system is operating correctly.





Canarying in Noninteractive Systems


The chapter has focused on an interactive request/response system, which in many ways is the simplest and most commonly discussed system design. Other systems, such as asynchronous processing pipelines, are equally important, but have different canarying considerations, which we’ll enumerate briefly. For more information on canarying as related to data processing pipelines, see Chapter 13.


First and foremost, the duration and deployment of the canary inherently depends on the duration of work unit processing. We’ve ignored this factor when it comes to interactive systems, assuming work unit processing will take no more than a few seconds, which is shorter than the canary duration. Work unit processing in noninteractive systems, such as rendering pipelines or video encoding, can take much longer. Accordingly, make sure the canary duration at minimum spans the duration of a single work unit.


Isolation can become more complex for noninteractive systems. Many pipeline systems have a single work assigner and a fleet of workers with the application code. In multistage pipelines, a work unit is processed by a worker, then returned to the pool for the same or another worker to perform the next stage of processing. It is helpful for canary analysis to ensure that the workers processing a particular unit of work are always pulled from the same pool of workers—either the canary pool or the control pool. Otherwise, the signals get increasingly mixed (for more about the need to untangle signals, see “Requirements on Monitoring Data”).


Finally, metric selection can be more complicated. We may be interested in end-to-end time to process the work unit (similar to latency in interactive systems), as well as quality of the processing itself (which is, of course, completely application-specific).


Given these caveats, the general concept of canarying remains viable, and the same high-level principles apply.





Requirements on Monitoring Data


When conducting canary evaluation, you must be able to compare the canary signals to the control signals. Often, this requires some care in structuring the monitoring system—effective comparisons are straightforward and produce meaningful results.


Consider our earlier example of a canary deployment to 5% of the population that runs at a 20% error rate. Because monitoring likely looks at the system as a whole, it will detect an overall error rate of only 1%. Depending on the system, this signal might be indistinguishable from other sources of errors (see Figure 16-3).


If we break down metrics by population servicing the request (the canary versus the control), we can observe the separate metrics (see Figure 16-4). We can plainly see the error rate in the control versus the canary, a stark illustration of what a full deployment would bring. Here we see that monitoring that reasons well about an entire service isn’t sufficient to analyze our canary. When collecting monitoring data, it is important to be able to perform fine-grained breakdowns that enable you to differentiate metrics between the canary and control populations.


Another challenge with collecting metrics is that canary deployments are time-limited by design. This can cause problems when metrics are aggregated over specific periods. Consider the metric errors per hour. We can calculate this metric by summing the requests over the past hour. If we use this metric to evaluate our canary, we might encounter problems, as described in the following timeline:



 
 An unrelated event causes some errors to occur.

 

 
 A canary is deployed to 5% of the population; the canary duration is 30 minutes.

 

 
 The canary system starts to watch the errors-per-hour metric to see if the deployment is good or bad.

 

 
 The deployment is detected as bad because the errors-per-hour metric is significantly different from the errors per hour of the control population.

 



This scenario is a result of using a metric that is computed hourly to evaluate a deployment that is only 30 minutes long. As a result, the canary process provides a very muddied signal. When using metrics to evaluate canary success, make sure the intervals of your metrics are either the same as or less than your canary duration.





Related Concepts


Often, our conversations with customers touch upon using blue/green deployment, artificial load generation, and/or traffic teeing in production. These concepts are similar to canarying, so while they’re not strictly canary processes, they might be used as such.



Blue/Green Deployment


Blue/green deployment maintains two instances of a system: one that is serving traffic (green), and another that is ready to serve traffic (blue). After deploying a new release in the blue environment, you can then move traffic to it. The cutover doesn’t require downtime, and rollback is a trivial reversal of the router change. One downside is that this setup uses twice as many resources as a more “traditional” deployment. In this setup, you are effectively performing a before/after canary (discussed earlier).


You can use blue/green deployments more or less as normal canaries by utilizing both blue and green deployments simultaneously (rather than independently). In this strategy, you can deploy the canary to the blue (standby) instance and slowly split traffic between green and blue environments. Both your evaluations and the metrics that compare the blue environment to the green environment should be tied to traffic control. This setup resembles an A/B canary, where the green environment is the control, the blue environment is the canary deployment, and the canary population is controlled by the amount of traffic sent to each.





Artificial Load Generation


Instead of exposing live user traffic to a canary deployment, it may be tempting to err on the side of safety and use artificial load generation. Often, you can run load tests in multiple deployment stages (QA, preproduction, and even in production). While these activities don’t qualify as canarying according to our definition, they are still viable approaches to finding defects with some caveats.


Testing with synthetic load does a good job of maximizing code coverage, but doesn’t provide good state coverage. It can be especially hard to artificially simulate load in mutable systems (systems with caches, cookies, request affinity, etc.). Artificial load also might not accurately model organic traffic shifts that happen in a real system. Some regressions may manifest only during events not included in the artificial load, leading to 