=== The Site Reliability Workbook ===
=== Chunk 33/100 ===

 rate as production environment changes. For daily releases, playbooks might need an update on any given day. Writing good documentation, like any form of communication, is hard. So how do you maintain playbooks?


Some SREs at Google advocate keeping playbook entries general so they change slowly. For example, they may have just one entry for all “RPC Errors High” alerts, for a trained on-call engineer to read, in conjunction with an architecture diagram for the currently alerting service. Other SREs advocate for step-by-step playbooks to reduce human variability and drive down MTTR. If your team has conflicting views about playbook content, the playbooks might get pulled in many directions.


This is a contentious topic. If you agree on nothing else, at least decide with your team what minimal, structured details your playbooks must have, and try to notice when your playbooks have accumulated a lot of information beyond these structured details. Pencil in a project to turn new, hard-won, production knowledge into automation or monitoring consoles. If your playbooks are a deterministic list of commands that the on-call engineer runs every time a particular alert fires, we recommend implementing automation.




After two months, Sara, Mike, and the SRE transfer shadowed the on-call shifts of the outgoing Kirkland SRE team. At three months, they became the primary on-call, with the Kirkland SREs as backup. That way, they could easily escalate to the Kirkland SREs if needed. Next, the Nooglers shadowed the more experienced, local SREs and joined the rotation.


Good documentation and the various strategies discussed earlier all helped the team form a solid foundation and ramp up quickly. Although on-call can be stressful, the teams’ confidence grew enough to take action without second-guessing themselves. There was psychological safety in knowing that their responses were based on the team’s collective knowledge, and that even when they escalated, the on-call engineers were still regarded as competent engineers.





Afterword


While the Mountain View SREs were ramping up, they learned that their experienced, sister SRE team in London would be moving on to a new project, and a new team was being formed in Zürich to support the services previously supported by the London SRE team. For this second transition, the same basic approach the Mountain View SREs used proved successful. The previous investment by Mountain View SREs in developing onboarding and training materials helped the new Zürich SRE team ramp up.


While the approach used by the Mountain View SREs made sense when a cohort of SREs were becoming a team, they needed a more lightweight approach when only one person joined the team at a given time. In anticipation of future turnover, the SREs created service architecture diagrams and formalized the basic training checklist into a series of exercises that could be completed semi-independently with minimal involvement from a mentor. These exercises included describing the storage layer, performing capacity increases, and reviewing how HTTP requests are routed.







Evernote: Finding Our Feet in the Cloud



Moving our on-prem infrastructure to the cloud


We didn’t set out to reengineer our on-call process, but as with many things in life, necessity is the mother of invention.  Prior to December 2016, Evernote ran only on on-prem datacenters, built to support our monolithic application. Our network and servers were designed with a specific architecture and data flow in mind. This, combined with a host of other constraints, meant we lacked the flexibility needed to support a horizontal architecture. Google Cloud Platform (GCP) provided a concrete solution to our problem. However, we still had one major hurdle to surmount: migrating all our production and supporting infrastructure to GCP. Fast-forward 70 days. Through a Herculean effort and many remarkable feats (for example, moving thousands of servers and 3.5 PB of data), we were happily settled in our new home. At this point, though, our job still wasn’t done: how were we going to monitor, alert, and—most importantly—respond to issues in our new environment?





Adjusting our on-call policies and processes


The move to the cloud unleashed the potential for our infrastructure to grow rapidly, but our on-call policies and processes were not yet set up to handle such growth. Once the migration wrapped up, we set out to remedy the problem. In our previous physical datacenter, we built redundancy into nearly every component. This meant that while component failure was common given our size, generally no individual component was capable of negatively impacting users. The infrastructure was very stable because we controlled it—any small bump would inevitably be due to a failure somewhere in the system. Our alerting policies were structured with that in mind: a few dropped packets, resulting in a JDBC (Java Database Connectivity) connection exception, invariably meant that a VM (virtual machine) host was on the verge of failing, or that the control plane on one of our switches was on the fritz. Even before our first day in the cloud, we realized that this type of alert/response system was not tenable going forward. In a world of live migrations and network latency, we needed to take a much more holistic approach to monitoring.


Reframing paging events in terms of first principles, and writing these principles down as our explicit SLOs (service level objectives), helped give the team clarity regarding what was important to alert on and allowed us to trim the fat from our monitoring infrastructure. Our focus on higher-level indicators such as API responsiveness, rather than lower-level infrastructure such as InnoDB row lock waits in MySQL, meant we could focus more time on the real pain our users experience during an outage. For our team, this meant less time spent chasing transient problems. This translated into more sleep, effectiveness, and ultimately, job satisfaction.





Restructuring our monitoring and metrics


Our primary on-call rotation is staffed by a small but scrappy team of engineers who are responsible for our production infrastructure and a handful of other business systems (for example, staging and build pipeline infrastructure). We have a weekly, 24/7 schedule with a well-oiled handoff procedure, alongside a morning review of incidents at a daily stand-up. Our small team size and comparatively large scope of responsibility necessitates that we make every effort to keep the process burden light, and focus on closing the alert/triage/remediation/analysis loop as quickly as possible. One of the ways we achieve this is to keep our signal-to-noise ratio low by maintaining simple but effective alerting SLAs (service level agreements). We classify any event generated by our metrics or monitoring infrastructure into three categories:



P1: Deal with immediately


 
 Should be immediately actionable

 

 
 Pages the on-call

 

 
 Leads to event triage

 

 
 Is SLO-impacting

 



P2: Deal with the next business day



 
 Generally is not customer-facing, or is very limited in scope

 

 
 Sends an email to team and notifies event stream channel

 



P3: Event is informational only


 
 Information is gathered in dashboards, passive email, and the like

 

 
 Includes capacity planning–related information

 



Any P1 or P2 event has an incident ticket attached to it. The ticket is used for obvious tasks like event triage and tracking remediation actions, as well as for SLO impact, number of occurrences, and postmortem doc links, where applicable.


When an event pages (category P1), the on-call is tasked with assessing the impact to users. Incidents are triaged into severities from 1 to 3. For severity 1 (Sev 1) incidents, we maintain a finite set of criteria to make the escalation decision as straightforward as possible for the responder. Once the event is escalated, we assemble an incident team and begin our incident management process. The incident manager is paged, a scribe and communications lead is elected, and our communication channels open. After the incident is resolved, we conduct an automatic postmortem and share the results far and wide within the company. For events rating Sev 2 or Sev 3, the on-call responder handles the incident lifecycle, including an abbreviated postmortem for incident review.


One of the benefits of keeping our process lightweight is that we can explicitly free the on-call from any expectations of project work. This empowers and encourages the on-call to take immediate follow-up action, and also to identify any major gaps in tooling or process after completing the post-incident review. In this way, we achieve a constant cycle of improvement and flexibility during every on-call shift, keeping pace with the rapid rate of change in our environment. The goal is to make every on-call shift better than the last.





Tracking our performance over time


With the introduction of SLOs, we wanted to track performance over time, and share that information with stakeholders within the company. We implemented a monthly service review meeting, open to anyone who’s interested, to review and discuss the previous month of the service. We have also used this forum to review our on-call burden as a barometer of team health, and discuss remediation actions when we exceed our pager budget. This forum has the dual purpose of spreading the importance of SLOs within the company and keeping the technical organization accountable for maintaining the health and wellness of our service and team.





Engaging with CRE


Expressing our objectives in terms of SLOs provides a basis for engaging with Google’s Customer Reliability Engineering (CRE) team. After we discussed our SLOs with CRE to see if they were realistic and measurable, both teams decided CRE would be paged alongside our own engineers for SLO-impacting events. It can be difficult to pinpoint root causes that are hidden behind layers of cloud abstraction, so having a Googler at our side take the guesswork out of black-box event triaging was helpful. More importantly, this exercise further reduced our MTTR, which is ultimately what our users care about.


